>> Woodruff: DISAPPOINTING JOBS
NUMBERS TODAY SHOWED SLUGGISH
HIRING EVEN AS THE UNEMPLOYMENT
RATE DPED IPSLIGHTLY.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
ON THE "NEWSHOUR" TONIGHT, WE
LOOK AT THE LATEST FIGURES AND
ASSESS THE IMPACT OF NEW
TECHNOLOGIES, INCLUDING
ROBOTICS, ON THE MODERN
WORKFORCE.
>> Woodruff: THEN, HARI
SREENIVASAN REPORTS ON THE
STRUGGLE FACED BY MILLIONS OF
SYRIANS: UPROOTED FROM THEIR
HOMES, BUT UNABLE TO LEAVE THEIR
COUNTRY.
>> THEY SUFFER FROM LACK OF
FOOD.
IN THE WINTER, THERE WAS NO
HEATING UNITS-- FREEZING
TEMPERATURES WITH LITTLE
CLOTHING OPTIONS, BLANKETS-- ALL
OF THESE ARE IN SHORT SUPPLY.
>> Brown: WE EXAMINE A MAJOR
RULING ON THE MORNING AFTER
PILL, AS A FEDERAL JUDGE ORDERED
THE FDA TO MAKE IT AVAILABLE,
WITHOUT PRESCRIPTION, TO WOMEN
AND GIRLS OF ALL AGES.
>> Woodruff: MARK SHIELDS AND
DAVID BROOKS ANALYZE THE WEEK'S
NEWS.
>> Brown: AND WE CLOSE WITH THE
STORY OF AN EXPOSE OF HIDDEN
OFF-SHORE BANK ACCOUNTS AROUND
THE GLOBE.
>> THE FIRST CONSEQUENCE, I
GUESS, IS THAT A SECRET WORLD IS
NO LONGERECRE ST, AND IT'S GOING
TO SEND SHIVERS THROUGH THIS
WORLD.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S "NEWSHOUR."
>> Woodruff: AMERICAN EMPLOYERS
ADDED 88,000 JOBS IN MARCH, THE
SMALLEST GAIN IN NINE MONTHS,
RAISING NEW FEARS THAT THE
RECOVERY MAY BE SLOWING DOWN.
NEW HIRING LAST MONTH WAS A
SHARP DECLINE FROM THE PREVIOUS
TWO MONTHS.
268,000 NEW JOBS WERE ADDED IN
FEBRUARY AND 148,000 IN JANUARY.
THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE DROPPED TO
7.6%, THE LOWEST IN FOUR YEARS,
BUT THAT WAS ATTRIBUTED TO MORE
PEOPLE RETIRING OR NOT SEARCHING
FOR WORK.
YAHOO! FINANCE'S JEFF MACKE:
>> ONE HALF OF ONE MILLION
AMERICANS QUIT LOOKING FOR JOBS
IN MARCH.
THAT MEANS THEY JUST GAVE UP AND
THEY STOPPED LOOKING SO THAT'S
HOW YOU GET THE UNEMPLOYMENT
RATE TO LOOK LOWER BECAUSE YOU
SHRINK THE POOL AND THAT IS A
>> Woodruff: IN FACT, THE
PERCENTAGE OF WORKING ADULTS IN
THE LABOR FORCE IS AT THE LOWEST
LEVEL SINCE 1979.
IN AN INTERVIEW ON BLOOMBERG TV,
ALAN KRUEGER, THE CHAIRMAN OF
THE WHITE HOUSE COUNCIL OF
ECONOMIC ADVISORS, SAID THAT
REFLECTS A NUMBER OF FACTORS.
>> IT'S NATURAL THAT PEOPLE WILL
RETIRE AS THEY GET OLDER AND
WE'RE GOING TO BE FACING THAT
TREND FOR SOME TIME TO COME.
BUT ALSO WHEN YOU GO THROUGH
DIFFICULT ECONOMIC TIMES, WHEN
UNEMPLOYMENT RISES AS IT DID
DURING THE RECESSION, YOU TEND
TO SEE PEOPLE LEAVE THE LABOR
FORCE.
SOME GO BACK TO SCHOOL, WHEN
>>oodr Wuff: ECONOMISTS OFTEN
WARN NOT TO MAKE TOO MUCH OF ANY
ONE MONTH'S FIGURES.
AND THE STOCK MARKET, WHILE DOWN
TODAY, REMAINS NEAR RECORD
HIGHS.
ON WALL STREET THE DOW JONES
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST NEARLY
41 POINTS TO CLOSE AT 14,565.
THE NASDAQ FELL 21 POINTS TO
CLOSE ABOVE 3,203.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW SHED ONE
TENTH OF A PERCENT.
THE NASDAQ LOST NEARLY 2%.
>> Brown: AND WE TAKE A CLOSER
LOOK AT TODAY'S NUMBERS AND SOME
KEY LONGER-TERM TRENDS IN THE
JOB MARKET, WITH LISA LYNCH,
DEAN OF THE HELLER SCHOOL FOR
SOCIAL POLICY AND MANAGEMENT AT
BRANDEIS UNIVERSITY.
SHE'S A FORMER CHIEF ECONOMIST
AT THE LABOR DEPARTMENT.
AND ANDREW McAFEE, PRINCIPAL
RESEARCH SCIENTIST AT THE
CENTER FOR DIGITAL BUSINESS AT
M.I.T.'S SLOAN SCHOOL OF
BUSINESS AND CO-AUTHOR OF "RACE
AGAINST THE MACHINE."
LISA LYNCH, POSITIVE NUMBERS
BUT MUCH LESS THAN HOPED FOR,
AND EVEN EXPECTED, RIGHT.
WHAT DO YOU SEE HERE?
>> WELL, IT WAS, YOU KNOW,
FRANKLY A MISERABLE REPORT.
WE HAD JOBS COMING IN AT
LESS THAN HALF OF WHAT
PEOPLE HAD EXPECTED.
AND WHILE THERE WAS GROWTH
IN IMPORTANT SECTORS
CONSTRUCTION, THE
HEALTH-CARE SECTOR,
ACCOUNTING, WE DID NOT SEE
THE EMPLOYMENT INCREASE IN
MANUFACTURING, IT DECREASED
A LITTLE BIT.
AND THERE WERE BIG DECREASES
IN THE RETAIL SECTOR.
>> Brown: JUST TO STAY WITH
YOU, WHETHER YOU LOOK AT
SECTORS OR OTHER FACTORS,
DOES ANYTHING STAND OUT OR
JUMP OUT AT YOU AS TELLING
WHY THERE WAS THIS LESS THAN
EXPECTED NUMBER TODAY?
>> WELL, PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
TRYING TO POINT TO MAYBE
SOME SEASONALITY FACTORS,
MARCH WAS A LITTLE SNOWIER
SO PEOPLE DIDN'T GO TO THE
STORE TO RETAIL STORES.
OR MAYBE THE UPWARD
REVISIONS IN FEBRUARY'S
NUMBERS, MAYBE YOU HAVE TO
MOVE-- MERGE THE TWO MONTHS
TOGETHER TO GET A PICTURE OF
THE LABOR MARKET THAT SAY
LITTLE BIT MORE ACCURATE.
AND FOLKS HAVE OBVIOUSLY
BEEN POINTING IT TO THE
IMPACT OF THE SEQUESTER.
AND THERE I THINK WE HAVE
MORE INFORMATION LOOKING
BACK AT WHAT'S HAPPENING FOR
GROWTH OVERALL IN THE
ECONOMY.
OUR ECONOMY IS GROWING VERY
SLOWLY, AT LESS THAN HALF A
PERCENT.
AND FOR THAT RATE OF GROWTH,
WE SHOULDN'T BE SURPRISED
WITH A NUMBER LIKE WE SAW
TODAY.
>> Brown: ANDREW McAFEE WE
LOOK AT THE MONTHLY NUMBERS.
WE TRY TO LOOK FOR SIGNALS.
HE LOOK LONGER-TERM AS WELL.
WHAT DO YOU SEE, WHAT
IMPORTANT TRENDS DO YOU SEE
THAT MIGHT HELP US
UNDERSTAND EVEN A MONTHLY
FIGURE LIKE THIS?
>> AND I THINK THAT THIS
LATEST MONTHLY FIGURE IS
PART OF A LONG-TERM AND
PRETTY CHALLENGING TREND,
ABOUT 30 YEARS AGO WAGE
GROWTH FOR THE AVERAGE
AMERICAN WORKER STARTED TO
TAPER OFF.
AND FOR THE PAST 15 YEARS
IT'S ACTUALLY BEEN NEGATIVE.
ABOUT 12 YEARS AGO JOB
GROWTH STARTED TO TAPER OFF
AS WELL.
OF COURSE THAT TOOK A HUGE
DIVE DURING THE GREAT
RECESSION AND HAS REALLY NOT
RECOVERED AT ALL.
AND I LOOK AT THESE
LONGER-TERM TRENDS AND I
THINK THEY'RE PART OF A
PATTERN, AS ARE TECHNOLOGIES,
AND ESPECIALLY OUR TIDGE NAL
TECHNOLOGIES JUST CONTINUE
TO GET SO MUCH MORE POWERFUL
AND TO DEMONSTRATE ALL THESE
NEW CAPABILITIES.
THAT MEANS THAT WE TEND TO
NEED HUMAN LABOR A LITTLE
BIT LESS, AS DIGITAL LABOR
GETS MORE AND MORE POWERFUL.
THAT TREND I THINK IS ONLY
GOING TO CONTINUE.
>> GIVE US A SPECIFIC
EXAMPLE.
I MEAN WE LOOK AT THE JOBS
REPORT LIKE THIS TODAY, GIVE
US AN EXAMPLE OF HOW
TECHNOLOGY, ROBOTICS OR
SOMETHING MIGHT IMPACT A JOB
THAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN THERE
BEFORE BUT IS NOT SHOWING UP
TODAY.
>> WELL, FOR EXAMPLE, RETAIL
HAS BEEN A HUGE EMPLOYER IN
THE UNITED STATES FOR A LONG
TIME.
THE JOB GROWTH THERE HAS
WELL SLOWED-- REALLY SLOWED
DOWN AND IN SOME CASES
TURNED NEGATIVE THERE ARE A
BUNCH OF FACTORS AT PLAY
THERE.
ONE OF THEM, THOUGH S THAT A
LOT OF US BUY THINGS ON-LINE
NOW, WE DO SELF-SERVICE, WE
GET OUR RECOMMENDATIONS FROM
RECOMMENDATIONS ENGINES AS
OPPOSED TO CLERKS.
AN EVEN WHEN WE GO TO THE
STORE THERE TEND TO BE FEWER
PEOPLE AROUND TO MAN THE
CASH REGISTERS BECAUSE A LOT
OF THAT BECOMES MORE
AUTOMATED AS WELL.
IN SOME STORES WHERE I SHOP
THESE DAYS I ACTUALLY CHECK
MYSELF OUT WITHOUT ANY HUMAN
INVOLVEMENT.
SO WE SEE TECHNOLOGY
CHIPPING AWAY AT THE KINDS
OF THINGS THAT WE USED TO
HAVE PEOPLE DOING.
AND WHEN I LOOK AT WHAT
ROBOTS AND CUTTING EDGE,
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE CAN
DO, I THINK WE AIN'T SEEN
NOTHING YET.
>> Brown: THE QUESTION, LISA
LYNCH, I WILL COME TO YOU ON
THIS, IS HOW MUCH OF THE
JOBS PROBLEM WE'RE LOOKING
AT IS AS ECONOMISTS LIKE YOU
SAY, CYCLICAL OR STRUCTURAL,
PART OF WHAT ANDY McAFEE IS
TALKING ABOUT HERE.
WHAT DO YOU THINK?
>> SO AS ANDY SAID, WE'VE
BEEN SEEING A DECREASE IN
THE LABOR FORCE
PARTICIPATION RATES THAT
TUALACLY GOES BACK 12 YEARS
AGO, IT STARTED IN 2,000.
AND SOME OF THAT IS MADE UP
OF CYCLICAL FACTORS.
ECONOMISTS ARE SAYING
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN A THIRD
AND A HALF OF THAT FALL IN
THE LABOR FORCE
PARTICIPATION RATE IS
CYCLICAL FACTORS.
BUT THERE ARE TWO OTHER
IMPORTANT SOURCE OF THAT
FALL IN THE LABOR FORCE
PARTICIPATION.
ONE IS THE AGING OF THE
WORKFORCE.
SO MORE OF OUR WORKERS ARE
GETTING CLOSER TO
RETIREMENT.
SO THERE IS A COMPOSITION
ISSUE PLAYING HERE.
SECONDLY IS YOUNG PEOPLE
DELAYING ENTRY INTO THE
LABOR FORCE.
THEY'RE IN SCHOOL.
THEY CAN'T GET A JOB.
THEY GET AN UNPAID
INTERNSHIP SO THEY DON'T GET
COUNTED AS AN EMPLOYEE.
AND THEN THE LAST SOURCE AS
ANDY IS TALKING ABOUT IS
THIS SORT OF HOLLOWING OUT
OF THE ECONOMY.
AND PART STAFF DUE TO GLOBAL
SGLACHLINGTS AND PART OF IT
IS DUE TO THESE
TECHNOLOGICAL SHOCKS, WHEN
SOMEBODY LOSES A JOB, THEY
CAN'T FIND A JOB IN THEIR
SAME SECTOR.
>> Brown: AT THE SAME TIME
DOESN'T TECHNOLOGY CREATE
NEW JOBS?
I MEAN YOU'RE NOT AGAINST
TECHNOLOGY AND TO THE
AGAINST IT IN THE WORKPLACE,
I ASSUME.
SO IS IT A BALANCING ACT?
ARE YOU SUGGESTING THAT
LONGER TERM NOW WE MAY BE AT
SOME KIND OF REAL STRONG
TIPPING POINT, THAT AFFECTS
THE LABOR MARKET.
>> YEAH, TECHNOLOGY IS
CLEARLY RACING AHEAD.
AND I'M A HUGE TECHNOLOGY'S TAKS
INTO A MORE A BUND ANT
FUTURE.
BUT AS IT DOES IT CAN LEAVE
A LOT OF PEOPLE BEHIND AND I
DON'T KNOW THE ECONOMIC LAW
THAT SAYS THAT TECHNOLOGY,
BY DEFINITION, HAS TO CREATE
AS MANY OR MORE JOBS AS IT
DESTROYS.
AND I THINK WE'RE SEEING
THAT BALANCE SHIFT THESE
DAYS.
>> Brown: WELL, LISA LYNCH-- GO
AHEAD.
>> BUT WHAT IS INTERESTING
IS THIS TECHNOLOGY IS
AVAILABLE AROUND THE WORLD.
AND THERE ARE OTHER
COUNTRIES LIKE GERMANY, THE
NETHERLANDS, NORWAY, SWEDEN,
DENMARK, THAT ARE NOT
EXPERIENCING THIS SAME
DECREASE IN LABOR FORCE
PARTICIPATION RATE.
ACTUALLY IN SOME OF THOSE
COUNTRIES IT'S ACTUALLY BEEN
RISING OVER THE LAST 12
YEARS, SO THERE'S SOMETHING
ELSE THAN TECHNOLOGY.
TECHNOLOGY IS NOT
DETERMINING OUR FUTURE.
AND WHEN YOU LOOK AT THOSE
OTHER COUNTRIES YOU SEE
INSTITUTIONS IN PLACE,
HELPING TO SUPPORT WORKERS
MAKE THE TRANSITION FROM ONE
SECTOR TO ANOTHER THAT I
THINK FRANKLY ARE DOING A
BETTER JOB THAN WHAT WE HAVE
IN THE UNITED STATES.
>> JUST ONE LAST WORD ON
THIS.
DOES YOUR ARGUMENT SUGGEST
THAT IT'S HARDER FOR
POLICYMAKERS, HARDER FOR THE
FEDERAL RESERVE, FOR EXAMPLE
TO RESPOND TO THE WEAKNESS
THAT WE SEE IN THE LABOR
MARKET?
>> YEAH, I ABSOLUTELY AGREE
WITH LISA THAT THERE ARE A
LOT OF THINGS WE CAN AND
SHOULD BE DOING.
STARTING WITH THE GOOD
OLD-FASHIONED ECON 101
PLAYBOOK OF UPDATING OUR
EDUCATION, MAKING LIFE EASY
FOR ENTREPRENEURS AND JOB
CREATORS AND DOUBLING DOWN
ON INFRASTRUCTURE.
THAT WILL HELP US OUT A LOT.
BUT I DO THINK THAT OUR TOOL
KIT IS GOING TO GET MORE
CHALLENGED BECAUSE
TECHNOLOGY CONTINUES TO JUST
DEMONSTRATE ASTONISHING NEW
CAPABILITIES.
I'VE RIDDEN IN THE GOOGLE
DRIVERLESS CAR, I'VE TRIED
TO PLAY JEOPARDY AGAINST
WATSON THE WORLD CHAMPION
SUPERCOMPUTER FROM IDM.
THESE ARE ASTONISHING
TECHNOLOGIES.
AND THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE
LABOR FORCE IMPLICATIONS.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, SHORT
TERM, LONG TERM, ANDREW
McAFEE, LISA LYNCH, THANK
YOU BOTH VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANKS.
>> Woodruff: ECONOMICS
CORRESPONDENT PAUL SOLMAN OFFERS
HIS OWN ANALYSIS OF THE
UNEMPLOYMENT PICTURE.
THAT'S ON OUR BUSINESS PE.AG
AND STILL TO COME ON THE
"NEWSHOUR": NO WAY OUT FOR
MILLIONS OF SYRIANS; A NEW
RULING ON EMERGENCY
CONTRACEPTIVES; SHIELDS AND
BROOKS AND SECRET OFFSHORE
INVESTMENTS REVEALED.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S KWAME HOLMAN.
>> Holman: TENSIONS GREW AGAIN
TODAY ON THE KOREAN PENINSULA
WITH REPORTS THE NORTH HAS
LOADED TWO MEDIUM-RANGE MISSILES
ONTO MOBILE LAUNCHERS.
SOUTH KOREAN MEDIA SAID THEY
WERE HIDDEN ON THE EAST COAST.
MEANWHILE, SOUTH KOREA DEPLOYED
TWO WARSHIPS ARMED WITH MISSILE
DEFENSE SYSTEMS.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM JOHN
IRVINE OF "INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS."
>> Reporter: IT'S A RARE SIGHT.
THE LEGENDARY SPY PLANE, THE U-
2.
IT MAY BE AN ICON OF THE COLD
WAR BUT HERE IT'S NO RELIC.
IRONICALLY, IT'S STILL
OPERATIONAL IN THE ONE PLACE
WHERE THAWAR T PERSISTS.
THREE OF THEM FLY OUT OF THIS
U.S. BASE NEAR SEOUL.
THEY CAN GET INTO AND OUT OF
HOSTILE AIR SPACE WITHIN
MINUTES.
NORTH KOREA'S JUST 50 MILES FROM
HERE AND THIS IS A U-2 RETURNING
FROM A SURVEILLANCE MISSION.
THE AIRCRAFT THAT WAS THE TRIP
WIRE FOR THE 1962 CUBAN MISSILE
CRISIS IS NOW MONITORING THE
NORTH KOREAN MISSILE CRISIS.
THE NORTH KOREANS ARE
MAINTAINING THE FAMILIAR
AGGRESSIVE POSTURE.
TODAY THEY RELEASED MORE
PICTURES OF KIM JONG UN TRYING
TO LOOK LIKE A COMMANDER-IN-
CHIEF.
AT ONE POINT, HE PICKS UP A
HANDGUN HIMSELF.
LATER HE WATCHES AS A HUGE
EXERCISE UNFOLDS.
THE IMPRESSION GIVEN IS THAT
NORTH KOREA IS PREPARING TO
FIGHT WHETHER IT BE ON LAND OR
AT SEA.
AS THE BRINKMANSHIP GOES ON, THE
SOUTH OF THE BORDER, THE WAITING
AND WATCHING GOES ON.
THE U-2s WILL KEEP A CLOSE EYE
ON THINGS.
>> Holman: ALSO TODAY, COUNTRIES
WITH DIPLOMATS IN NORTH KOREA
SAID THE GOVERNMENT WARNED THEM
THEIR SAFETY COULD NOT BE
GUARANTEED IF CONFLICT BREAKS
OUT.
ABOUT TWO DOZEN COUNTRIES HAVE
DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS IN
PYONGYANG.
THERE WERE NEW QUESTIONS TODAY
ABOUT WHAT UNIVERSITY POLICE
KNEW ABOUT THE SUSPECTED
COLORADO THEATER GUNMAN BEFORE
LAST SUMMER'S ATTACK.
COURT DOCUMENTS MADE PUBLIC LATE
YESTERDAY REVEAL JAMES HOLMES'
PSYCHIATRIST WARNED UNIVERSITY
OF COLORADO-DENVER CAMPUS POLICE
THAT HE WAS DANGEROUS AND HAD
HOMICIDAL THOUGHTS.
THAT WARNING CAME MORE THAN A
MONTH BEFORE THE JULY 20
SHOOTINGS THAT KILLED 12 PEOPLE.
OPERATORS OF 149 AIRPORT CONTROL
TOWERS SLATED FOR CLOSURE ACROSS
THE COUNTRY GAINED TEMPORARY
REPRIEVES TODAY.
THE FEDERAL AVIATION
ADMINISTRATION WAS DUE TO START
CLOSING THEM TOMORROW BECAUSE OF
GOVERNMENT-SPENDING CUTS, BUT A
HOST OF LEGAL CHALLENGES HAS
PUSHED BACK THE SHUTDOWNS TO
MID-JUNE.
IN CHINA, AUTHORITIES
SLAUGHTERED MORE THAN 20,000
BIRDS AT A MAJOR POULTRY MARKET
AFTER SIX PEOPLE DIED FROM BIRD
FLU.
16 PEOPLE HAVE COME DOWN WITH A
NEW STRAIN OF THE VIRUS, BUT SO
FAR THERE ARE NO CASES OF HUMAN
TO HUMAN TRANSMISSION.
THE BIRD CULL IN SHANGHAI WAS
ORDERED AFTER AUTHORITIES FOUND
THE H7N9 VIRUS IN PIGEONS BEING
SOLD FOR MEAT IN THE MARKET.
OTHER POULTRY MARKETS IN THE
CITY WILL CLOSE TOMORROW.
MEANWHILE IN THE U.S., THE
CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL
ANNOUNCED IT IS WORKING ON A
VACCINE IN CASE ONE IS NEEDED.
AT LEAST 47 PEOPLE DIED IN
EASTERN INDIA WHEN AN EIGHT-
STORY RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
COLLAPSED.
70 OTHERS WERE INJURED.
IT HAPPENED THURSDAY EVENING ON
THE OUTSKIRTS OF MUMBAI.
INDIAN AUTHORITIES SAID THE
BUILDING WAS BEING CONSTRUCTED
ILLEGALLY, AND FOUR OF ITS
FLOORS ALREADY WERE OCCUPIED.
TODAY, RESCUERS COMBED THE
DEBRIS LOOKING FOR SIGNS OF
LIFE.
MORE THAN 20 PEOPLE STILL ARE
MISSING.
BULLDOZERS WERE BEING USED IN
THE SEARCH.
POPE FRANCIS URGED THE CATHOLIC
CHURCH TO TAKE DECISIVE ACTION
TO ROOT OUT AND PUNISH SEXUAL
ABUSE OF CHILDREN BY PRIESTS.
THE POPE MET TODAY WITH SENIOR
MEMBERS OF HIS STAFF, SAYING THE
CHURCH'S CREDIBILITY IS AT
STAKE.
GROUPS ADVOCATING FOR VICTIMS
SAID THE STATEMENTS WERE JUST
RHETORIC UNTIL CONCRETE ACTION
IS TAKEN.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JUDY.
>> Woodruff: THERE WAS A STARK
WARNING TODAY FROM THE UNITED
NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND, UNICEF,
ABOUT THE HUMANITARIAN CRISIS
CAUSED IN SYRIA, AND THE ABILITY
OF THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY
TO HELP.
A UNICEF SPOKESPERSON SAID "THE
NEEDS ARE RISING EXPONENTIALLY,
AND WE ARE BROKE."
NEW FIGURES SHOW THE NUMBER OF
SYRIAN REFUGEES IN JORDAN ALONE
WOULD MORE THAN DOUBLE TO 1.2
MILLION BY THE END OF THIS YEAR.
BUT THEY MAY BE THE LUCKY ONES,
MILLIONS MORE SYRIANS REMAIN IN
THEIR COUNTRY.
AND THAT'S WHERE HARI
SREENIVASAN PICKS UP THE STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: BAB AL HAWA
MEANS "GATE OF THE WINDS" IN
ARABIC.
IN NORTHERN SYRIA, AT THE BORDER
CROSSING OF THE SAME NAME, IT IS
ALSO THE GATE INTO TURKEY, AND
ESCAPE FROM THE SLAUGHTER OF
CIVIL WAR.
BUT FOR MANY SYRIANS THERE IS NO
WAY OUT AND HERE AT BAB AL HAWA,
IN IDLIB PROVINCE, THOUSANDS
LIVE IN A SQUALID MAKESHIFT CAMP
WITHIN SIGHT OF THE BORDER AND
REFUGE.
VIDEOJOURNALIST TED NIETERS
TRAVELED TO SYRIA FOR THE
"NEWSHOUR" AND FOUND SEVEN
THOUSAND PEOPLE HUDDLED BY THE
FRONTIER.
SYRIAN AIR FORCE FIGHTER JETS
OVERFLEW THE CAMP, AND SENT ITS
SHELLSHOCKED RESIDENTS
SCURRYING.
NAWAF AL MOUSSA CAME FROM THE
COUNTRYSIDE OF IDLIB.
>> (translated): IT'S NOT SAFE
AT ALL BECAUSE AT THE MOMENT THE
AIRCRAFT ARE OVER THE CAMP.
EVERYDAY THERE IS THE SOUND OF
AIRCRAFT BECAUSE ALEPPO, WHICH
IS 30 KILOMETERS FROM HERE,
THERE IS WAR THERE.
WE'RE NOT FIGHTERS.
WE CAME HERE TO FEEL SAFE,
BECAUSE WE ARE CIVILIANS.
>> Sreenivasan: THE UNITED
NATIONS REFUGEE OFFICE SAYS TWO
YEARS OF UPHEAVAL HAVE UPROOTED
AT LEAST FOUR MILLION SYRIANS.
THAT'S ABOUT ONE-FIFTH OF THE
ENTIRE POPULATION.
MORE THAN ONE MILLION HAVE FLED
TO NEIGHBORING NATIONS; MORE
THAN 300,000 ARE IN LEBANON; A
SIMILAR NUMBER IN JORDAN; NEARLY
200,000 ARE IN TURKEY AND
100,000-PLUS IN IRAQ.
BUT AT LEAST ANOTHER THREE
MILLION HAVE BEEN DISPLACED
INTERNALLY.
AND THAT NUMBER COMES FROM THE
SYRIAN GOVERNMENT ITSELF; THE
ACTUAL NUMBER IS SUSPECTED TO BE
MUCH LARGER.
WITH SYRIA'S NEIGHBORS STRAINING
TO SERVE THE HUGE REFUGEE
POPULATIONS FLOODING THEIR
COUNTRIES, IT IS BECOMING HARDER
AND HARDER FOR MANY SYRIANS TO
LEAVE.
>> (translated): WE CAME HERE
AND THEY PROMISED TO LET US INTO
TURKEY BUT NOW WE'VE BEEN HERE
FOR ONE MONTH AND MORE, AND THEY
DON'T ALLOW US TO GO.
THERE IS NO VILLE LEAGFT, SO I
CAN'T GO BACK TO MY VILLAGE.
>> ONE OF THE REGIME STRATEGIES
HAS BEEN KIND OF THE INVERSE OF
NORMAL INSURGENCY CAMPAIGNS THAT
WE THINK OF TO THE POINT THAT
WHAT THEY'RE TRYING TO DO IS
PURPOSEFULLY DISPLACE
POPULATIONS FROM TOWN CENTERS
AND FROM CITY CENTERS SO THAT
WHEN THE REBELS TAKE CONTROL,
THEY'RE TAKING CONTROL OF EMPTY
CITIES AND EMPTY VILLAGES.
>> Sreenivasan: ELIZABETH O'BAGY
IS A RESEARCH ANALYST AT THE
INSTITUTE FOR THE STUDY OF RWA
IN WASHINGTON.
SHE SAYS MANY SYRIAN WHO HAD THE
FINANCIAL MEANS, AND WHO WISHED
TO FE SYLERIA, HAVE ALREADY
GONE.
THOSE LEFT BEHIND ARE LARGELY
FENDING FOR THEMSELVES.
>> THEY SUFFER FROM LACK OF
FOOD, IN WINTER THERE WAS NO
HEATING UNITS; FREEZING
TEMPERATURES WITH LITTLE
CLOTHING OPTIONS.
BLANKETS: ALL OF THESE ARE IN
SHORT SUPPLY.
WATER HAS OFTEN BEEN
CONTAMINATED.
THEY DON'T HAVE ADEQUATE WATER
RESOURCES, OIL RESOURCES.
>> Sreenivasan: WHILE THE
REFUGEE POPULATIONS OF
SURROUNDING COUNTRIES RECEIVE
AID AND SERVICES OF VARYING
QUALITY AND FREQUENCY, PROVIDING
ASSISTANCE TO DISPLACED SYRIANS
INSIDE HAS PROVEN TO BE AN EVEN
MORE DIFFICULT OPERATION.
AMNA KIZAWI CAME TO BAB AL HAWA
WITH HER SON AND DAUGHTER; ONE
OF HER SONS WAS KILLED AMID THE
FIGHTING.
>> (translated): THEY
DESTROYED ALL THE HOUSES AND
EVEN THOUGH THEY TRIED TO DIG A
GRAVEYARD, THEY BOMBED ALL THE
GRAVEYARDS.
I AM LIVING IN A TENT FOR 15
DAYS WITH NOTHING, THEY HAVEN'T
DISTRIBUTED ANYTHING TO US, JUST
A LITTLE BREAD AND CANNED
CHEESE.
IT'S VERY COLD AT NIGHT AND NOW,
VERY HOT DURING THE DAY.
>> IT'S VERY DIFFICULT TO GET
INTO SYRIA, THE CHECKPOINTS ARE
PRETTY HORRENDOUS, UP TO 20
BEFORE WE GET TO WHERE WE'RE
GOING.
>> Sreenivasan: CAROLYN MILES IS
THE PRESIDENT AND C.E.O. OF SAVE
THE CHILDREN, WHICH HAS MORE
THAN 500 PEOPLE IN SYRIA AND
SURROUNDING COUNTRIES.
SHE'S JUST RETURNED FROM JORDAN,
AND THE HUGE ZA'ATARI CAMP ON
THE BORDER; 1,600 SYRIANS CAME
OVER THE BORDER ON JUST ONE
NIGHT SHE WAS THERE.
IN ADDITION TO 100,000 PEOPLE
THEY HELP FEED EVERY DAY
THROUGHOUT THE REGION, SAVE THE
CHILDREN IS REACHING ABOUT
80,000 INSIDE THE COUNTRY.
>> WE ARE DELIVERING AGAIN FOOD
AND WATER INSIDE OF SYRIA WITH
PARTNERS, WHEN THEY'RE CAUGHT
DELIVERING FOOD THEY'RE
TORTURED.
I THINK THE BIGGEST CHALLENGE IS
THAT THE WORK WE'RE DOING IS
TARGETED, PARTICULARLY THE
HEALTH SYSTEM AND THE HEALTH
FACILITIES.
>> Sreenivasan: ARE THERE STILL
HOSPITALS LEFT THAT PEOPLE CAN
GO TO?
>> THERE ARE STILL HOSPITALS
THAT ARE STILL OPEN.
PEOPLE STILL NEED HEALTH
SERVICES, SO THEY'RE TRYING TO
GET TO THOSE FEW HEALTH CLINICS
AND HOSPITS THALAT ARE OPEN.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT THOSE FEW
CANNOT SERVE MILLIONS OF
INTERNALLY DISPLACED, MANY OF
WHOM GO LACKING FOR EVEN BASIC
HEALTHCARE.
COUPLED WITH SHORTAGES OF
SANITATION AND CLEAN WATER,
OUTBREAKS OF DISEASE-- TYPHOID,
HEPATITIS-A-- ARE STARTING.
ELIZABETH O'BAGY:
>> ONE OF THE SPECIFIC THINGS
THAT THEY'VE REQUESTED IS
GREATER VACCINATIONS IN ORDER TO
PREVENT DISEASES AND TRY AND
HELP PREVENT THE OUTBREAK OF
SOME OF THE MORE CONTAGIOUS
DISEASES THAT WERE THEY WERE
FACING.
THEY WERE SIGNIFICANTLY HINDERED
BY TURKISH BORDER AUTHORITIES
WHO WOULDN'T ALLOW FOR CERTAIN
MEDICATIONS AND CERTAIN
VACCINATIONS TO GET ACROSS THE
BORDER.
>> Sreenivasan: AT BAB AL HAWA,
THERE IS INCREASING FRUSTRATION
WITH TURKISH AUTHORITIES:
>> (translated): TURKEY
PROMISED US MANY TIMES TO ALLOW
THESE PEOPLE TO ENTER TURKEY BUT
IN VAIN.
AND YOU CAN SEE NOW THAT THERE
IS A PROTEST AT THE BORDER AND
PEOPLE WANT CROSS IN TURKEY BUT
ALL OF THAT WENT IN VAIN BECAUSE
TURKEY DOESN'T ALLOW THEM TO GO.
>> Sreenivasan: OMAR IBRAHIM IS
SERVING AS A NURSE IN THE CAMP
WITHOUT MEDICAL SUPPLIES AND
EQUIPMENT.
THERE ARE NO DOCTORS.
>> I HAVE SIMPLE EQUIPMENT LIKE
INJECTIONS, LIKE SOME KINDS OF
MEDICINE.
BUT FOR MANY CASES I CAN'T DO
NOTHING.
LIKE FOR PREGNANT WOMEN BECAUSE
THEY NEED DELIVERY ROOM AND
THERE ARE NO DOCTORS, THEY HAD
TWO CASES WHERE THE BABIES DIED
OF COLD.
>> Sreenivasan: LACK OF GOOD
SANITATION AND CLEAN WATER IS
ALSO CONTRIBUTING TO THE SPREAD
OF DISEASE
>> THEY ARE FACING MANY CASES OF
DIARRHEA.
AN LEIDSHMANIASIS AND SCABS IN
FACT BECAUSE THESE PEOPLE HAVE
NOT BATHED IN 40 DAYS SO THEY'RE
GOING TO FACE ALL THOSE
PROBLEMS.
>> Sreenivasan: THE "NEWSHOUR"
WAS TOLD OF OTHER CASES OF
LEISHMANIASIS ELSEWHERE IN IDLIB
PROVINCE.
IT IS A HIGHLY CONTAGIOUS
DISEASE THAT CAN CAUSE SKIN
LESIONS.
IN ANOTHER FORM IT CAUSES ACUTE
FEVER, WEIGHT LOSS AND IF
UNTREATED, IS OFTEN FATAL.
DOCTORS TOLD TEN-YEAR-OLD AMEL
AND HER PARENTS THAT SHE WOULD
NEED HOSPITAL CARE AND AN
INJECTION TO CURE WHAT SHE CALLS
"THESE THIS ONNG MY FACE."
>> THERE IS NO INJECTION HERE,
AND WE HAVE TO GO TO TURKEY TO
FIND IT.
MY MOTHER AND FATHER STARTED TO
GET INFECTED, TOO.
>> Sreenivasan: SHE FLED WITH
HER FAMILY FROM THEIR VILLAGE IN
CENTRAL SYRIA AFTER HER HOME WAS
BURNED.
SHE IS ONE OF THE ESTIMATED TWO
MILLION DISPLACED CHILDREN IN
SYRIA, ACCORDING TO A RECENT
REPORT BY SAVE THE CHILDREN.
THREE-OUT-OF-FOUR CHILDREN HAD
LOST A LOVED ONE.
YOUNG AMEL IS AMONG THAT NUMBER.
>> I MISS EVERYTHING, EVERYTHING
IN MY HOUSE, MY AUNTS, MY
GRANDMOTHER, EVEN TO GO TO
SCHOOL.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT SHE DOES
HAVE HOPES OF ONE DAY GOING HOME
>> WHEN WE GO BACK, I'M GOING TO
VISIT MY NEIGHBORS, I'M GOING TO
PLAY WITH MY FRIENDS.
MY FATHER SAYS "WE DON'T HAVE A
HOUSE."
AND I SAID "WE ARE GOING TO FIX
IT."
>> Sreenivasan: BUT NOW, FOR
MANY TRAPPED HERE IN BAB AL
HAWA, THAT DAY FEELS LIKE IT MAY
NEVER COME.
>> Woodruff: LEARN MORE ABOUT
THE IMPACT OF WAR ON THE VERY
YOUNG, WATCH HARI'S EXTENDED
INTERVIEW WITH SAVE THE
CHILDREN'S CAROLYN MILES,
ONLINE.
ALSO THERE, SEE WHAT LIFE IS
LIKE FOR STUDENTS IN A REFUGEE
CAMP CLASSROOM.
THAT'S ON OUR WORLD PAGE.
>> Brown: IT'S AN ISSUE THAT'S
BEEN FRAUGHT WITH MORAL, LEGAL
AND POLITICAL IMPLICATIONS AND
TODAY CAME THE LATEST STEP, AS A
FEDERAL JUDGE IN NEW YORK
ORDERED THE FOOD AND DRUG
ADMINISTRATION TO MAKE THE MOST
COMMON MORNING AFTER PILL
AVAILABLE TO WOMEN AND GIRLS OF
ALL AGES WITHOUT A PRESCRIPTION.
THE RULING GIVES THE F.D.A. 30
DAYS TO LIFT THE AGE
RESTRICTIONS ON TEVA
PHARMACEUTICAL'S PLAN-B ONE
STEP' AND ITS GENERIC FORM.
UNDER CURRENT REGULATIONS, THE
EMERGENCY CONTRACEPTIVE, WHICH
REDUCES THE RISK OF PREGNANCY BY
HALF IF TAKEN SOON AFTER
UNPROTECTED SEX, IS ONLY
AVAILABLE OVER-THE-COUNTER TO
WOMEN 17 OR OLDER.
YOUNGER TEENAGERS MUST HAVE A
PRESCRIPTION.
IN 2011, THE F.D.A. CONCLUDED
PLAN-B ONE STEP WAS SAFE TO SELL
TO EVERYONE WITHOUT THAT
REQUIREMENT.
BUT HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
SECRETARY KATHLEEN SEBELIUS
OVERRULED THAT DECISION, SAYING
THERE WAS NOT ENOUGH EVIDENCE TO
ALLOW THE CONTRACEPTIVE TO BE
SOLD TO GIRLS YOUNGER THAN 17
WITHOUT A DOCTOR'S ORDER.
TODAY, U.S. DISTRICT JUDGE
EDWARD KORMAN CALLED THAT ACTION
"ARBITRARY, CAPRICIOUS, AND
UNREASONABLE-- AN EXCUSE TO
DEPRIVE THE OVERWHELMING
MAJORITY OF WOMEN OF THEIR
RIGHTS TO OBTAIN CONTRACEPTIVES
WITHOUT UNJUSTIFIED AND
BURDENSOME RESTRICTIONS."
IN RESPONSE, THIS AFTERNOON IN
WASHINGTON, WHITE HOUSE PRESS
SECRETARY JAY CARY SANEID THE
ADMINISTRATION STANDS BY ITS
ORIGINAL DECISION.
>> SECRETARY SEBELIUS MADE THIS
DECISION.
THE PRESIDENT SUPPORTED THAT
DECISION AFTER SHE MADE IT AND I
AND HE SUPPORTS THAT DECISION
TODAY.
HE BELIEVES IT WAS THE RIGHT
COMMON SENSE APPROACH TO THIS
ISSUE.
>> Brown: TODAY'S RULING IS NOW
BEING REVIEWED BY THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT.
MORE NOW ABOUT THE RULING AND
THE LONG DEBATE SURROUNDING THIS
ISSUE WITH SARAH KLIFF OF THE
"WASHINGTON POST."
STRONG LANGUAGE FROM THAT
JUDGE, FILL IN A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT HIS ARGUING.
>> RIGHT.
I MEAN HE DIDN'T MINCE WORDS
IN HIS RULING.
HE CALLED IT ARBITRARY, CA
PRICIOUS, CALLED IT A
POLITICAL DECISION ON THE
PART OF THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION.
ONE OF THE THINGS HE RELIED
ON HEAVILY IS THE FACT THAT
THE FDA AFTER A RIGOROUS
REVIEW DECIDED THIS SHOULD
BE AVAILABLE
OVER-THE-COUNTER.
AND THAT THE HHS STEPPED IN
AND SAID, YOU KNOW, BECAUSE
OF SOME OF THE CONCERNS WE
HAVE, CITING NOT NECESSARILY
EVIDENCE OF IT BEING HARMFUL
FOR YOUNG GIRLS, BUT SAYING
WE HAVE CONCERNS ABOUT YOUNG
GIRLS PURCHASING THIS,
BECAUSE THEY STEPPED IN
WITHOUT THAT EVIDENCE.
>> Brown: WHAT WAS THE
EVIDENCE?
WHAT DO THEY MEAN BY
IT'S NOT THE MEDICAL SAFETY
EVIDENCE?
OF THE ACTUAL DRUG VERSUS
IT'S NOT THE MEDICAL SAFETY
HOW IT WOULD BE USED?
OF THE ACTUAL DRUG VERSUS
>> RIGHT, SO THE FDA WENT
HOW IT WOULD BE USED?
THROUGH AND DID A RIGOROUS
>> RIGHT, SO THE FDA WENT
STUDY AS THEY DO WITH ALL
THROUGH AND DID A RIGOROUS
MEDICATIONS LOOKING AT WHAT
STUDY AS THEY DO WITH ALL
ARE SOME OF THE SIDE EFFECTS
MEDICATIONS LOOKING AT WHAT
AND POSSIBLE HARMS THAT THE
ARE SOME OF THE SIDE EFFECTS
MEDICATION IF TAKEN IN A WAY
AND POSSIBLE HARMS THAT THE
IT IS NOT SUPPOSED TO BE.
MEDICATION IF TAKEN IN A WAY
AND THEY FOUND IT SAFE.
IT IS NOT SUPPOSED TO BE.
SECRETARY SEBELIUS IN HER
AND THEY FOUND IT SAFE.
STATEMENT OVERRULING THEM
SECRETARY SEBELIUS IN HER
SAID THERE WAS NO TESTING
STATEMENT OVERRULING THEM
DONE ON 11-YEAR-OLD GIRLS
SAID THERE WAS NO TESTING
AND THERE ARE SOME
DONE ON 11-YEAR-OLD GIRLS
11-YEAR-OLD GIRLS WHO
AND THERE ARE SOME
REACHED MENSTRUATION THERE
11-YEAR-OLD GIRLS WHO
HE IS A POSSIBILITY THEY
REACHED MENSTRUATION THERE
COULD USE IT.
HE IS A POSSIBILITY THEY
AND SAID BECAUSE THERE WAS
COULD USE IT.
NO TESTING ON THAT AGE GROUP
AND SAID BECAUSE THERE WAS
THAT THEY SHOULD NOT ALLOW
NO TESTING ON THAT AGE GROUP
IT TO GO OVER-THE-COUNTER
THAT THEY SHOULD NOT ALLOW
WAS HER ARGUMENT ABOUT A
IT TO GO OVER-THE-COUNTER
YEAR AGO.
WAS HER ARGUMENT ABOUT A
>> Brown: THAT WAS A VERY
YEAR AGO.
CONTROVERSIAL DECISION BACK
>> Brown: THAT WAS A VERY
THEN.
CONTROVERSIAL DECISION BACK
>> IT WAS.
THEN.
>> Brown: THAT LEAD DIRECTLY
>> IT WAS.
TO THIS LAWSUIT.
>> Brown: THAT LEAD DIRECTLY
>> IT WAS THE FIRST TIME AN
TO THIS LAWSUIT.
HHS SECRETARY HAS EVER
>> IT WAS THE FIRST TIME AN
OVERRULED THE FDA ON A
HHS SECRETARY HAS EVER
DECISION LIKE THIS.
OVERRULED THE FDA ON A
SO IT IS REALLY A BREAK FROM
DECISION LIKE THIS.
WHAT WE'RE USED TO.
SO IT IS REALLY A BREAK FROM
>> Brown: AT THE SAME TIME,
WHAT WE'RE USED TO.
AS I SAID IN THE INTRO, THIS
>> Brown: AT THE SAME TIME,
HAS BEEN STEEPED IN POLITICS
AS I SAID IN THE INTRO, THIS
FOR A LONG TIME, CERTAINLY
HAS BEEN STEEPED IN POLITICS
AT LEAST GOING BACK TO THE
FOR A LONG TIME, CERTAINLY
GEORGE W. BUSH
AT LEAST GOING BACK TO THE
ADMINISTRATION, INCLUDING A
GEORGE W. BUSH
NUMBER OF RESIGNATIONS ALONG
ADMINISTRATION, INCLUDING A
THE WAY.
NUMBER OF RESIGNATIONS ALONG
>> RIGHT, EVER SINCE PLAN B
THE WAY.
WAS FIRST APPROVED FOR SALE
>> RIGHT, EVER SINCE PLAN B
AS A PRESCRIPTION IN 1999
WAS FIRST APPROVED FOR SALE
IT'S BEEN MARKED WITH
AS A PRESCRIPTION IN 1999
CONTROVERSY.
IT'S BEEN MARKED WITH
WE SAW MULTIPLE OFFICIALS
CONTROVERSY.
RESIGNED OVER THE ISSUE
WE SAW MULTIPLE OFFICIALS
DURING THE BUSH
RESIGNED OVER THE ISSUE
ADMINISTRATION.
DURING THE BUSH
MANY EXPECTED THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION.
ADMINISTRATION TO QUICKLY
MANY EXPECTED THE OBAMA
MAKE PLAN B AVAILABLE
ADMINISTRATION TO QUICKLY
OVER-THE-COUNTER.
MAKE PLAN B AVAILABLE
AND MANY FOLKS WERE
OVER-THE-COUNTER.
ADVOCATING IT, WERE REALLY
AND MANY FOLKS WERE
SURPRISED AND DISAPPOINTED
ADVOCATING IT, WERE REALLY
WITH THE DECISION IN 2011.
SURPRISED AND DISAPPOINTED
AND ARE REALLY EXCITED ABOUT
WITH THE DECISION IN 2011.
THIS COURT RULING RIGHT NOW.
AND ARE REALLY EXCITED ABOUT
>> Brown: TELL ME MORE ABOUT
THIS COURT RULING RIGHT NOW.
THAT.
>> Brown: TELL ME MORE ABOUT
WHAT KIND OF REACTIONS WERE
THAT.
THERE TODAY FROM BOTH SIDES?
WHAT KIND OF REACTIONS WERE
>> SO, A LOT OF EXCITEMENT
THERE TODAY FROM BOTH SIDES?
FROM BOTH MEDICAL GROUPS AND
>> SO, A LOT OF EXCITEMENT
WOMEN'S HEALTH GROUPS, HAVE
FROM BOTH MEDICAL GROUPS AND
REALLY BEEN PUSHING THE
WOMEN'S HEALTH GROUPS, HAVE
ADMINISTRATION HARD ON THIS
REALLY BEEN PUSHING THE
ISSUE.
ADMINISTRATION HARD ON THIS
SOME ABORTION OPPONENTS AND
ISSUE.
SOCIAL CONSERVATIVES ARE
SOME ABORTION OPPONENTS AND
VERY CONCERNED ABOUT THIS
SOCIAL CONSERVATIVES ARE
RULING, THAT THEY SAY IT
VERY CONCERNED ABOUT THIS
WILL ESSENTIALLY REMOVE
RULING, THAT THEY SAY IT
PARENTS AND DOCTORS FROM A
WILL ESSENTIALLY REMOVE
DECISION THAT THEY SHOULD BE
PARENTS AND DOCTORS FROM A
INVOLVED IN.
DECISION THAT THEY SHOULD BE
AND THEY'RE VERY WORRIED
INVOLVED IN.
ABOUT, YOU KNOW, WHAT IT
AND THEY'RE VERY WORRIED
WILL MEAN TO HAVE EMERGENCY
ABOUT, YOU KNOW, WHAT IT
CONTRACEPTIVE ON A SHELF
WILL MEAN TO HAVE EMERGENCY
NEXT TO YOU KNOW, TYLENOL
CONTRACEPTIVE ON A SHELF
AND OTHER OVER-THE-COUNTER
NEXT TO YOU KNOW, TYLENOL
MEDICATIONS.
AND OTHER OVER-THE-COUNTER
>> Brown: HHS AND THE
MEDICATIONS.
ADMINISTRATION CAN
>> Brown: HHS AND THE
PRESUMABLY APPEAL.
ADMINISTRATION CAN
ANY SIGNALS OR SIGNS OF WHAT
PRESUMABLY APPEAL.
THE NEXT STEP WOULD BE?
ANY SIGNALS OR SIGNS OF WHAT
>> THEY ARE BEING PRETTY
THE NEXT STEP WOULD BE?
QUIET RIGHT NOW.
>> THEY ARE BEING PRETTY
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT SAYS,
QUIET RIGHT NOW.
OBVIOUSLY, THE RULING JUST
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT SAYS,
CAME OUT THIS MORNING.
OBVIOUSLY, THE RULING JUST
THEY'RE REVIEWING THE
CAME OUT THIS MORNING.
OPTIONS.
THEY'RE REVIEWING THE
PSS RESECRETARY JAY CARNEY
OPTIONS.
FOR THE WHITE HOUSE SAYS
PSS RESECRETARY JAY CARNEY
THEY STAND BY THAT I
FOR THE WHITE HOUSE SAYS
RECALLER-- THEIR EARLIER
THEY STAND BY THAT I
DECISION BUT HAVEN'T
RECALLER-- THEIR EARLIER
COMMENTED YET ON WHETHER THE
DECISION BUT HAVEN'T
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE WILL
COMMENTED YET ON WHETHER THE
PURSUE ACTION TO OVERTURN
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE WILL
THIS.
PURSUE ACTION TO OVERTURN
>> Brown: OF COURSE THE
THIS.
POLITICS ARE STILL THERE
>> Brown: OF COURSE THE
RIGHT, WHICHEVER WAY IT MAY
POLITICS ARE STILL THERE
GO.
RIGHT, WHICHEVER WAY IT MAY
>> IT IS A TOUGH DECISION.
GO.
IT'S BEEN A THORN IN THE
>> IT IS A TOUGH DECISION.
SIDE OF TWO ADMINISTRATIONS
IT'S BEEN A THORN IN THE
AT THIS POINT.
SIDE OF TWO ADMINISTRATIONS
THE POLITICS MIGHT BE A
AT THIS POINT.
LITTLE BIT DIFFERENT THAN
THE POLITICS MIGHT BE A
THE LAST TIME THEY ADDRESSED
LITTLE BIT DIFFERENT THAN
THIS ISSUE.
THE LAST TIME THEY ADDRESSED
THEY'RE NOT FACING
THIS ISSUE.
RE-ELECTION THIS TIME, WHICH
THEY'RE NOT FACING
MIGHT GIVE THEM A BIT MORE
RE-ELECTION THIS TIME, WHICH
WIGGLE ROOM.
MIGHT GIVE THEM A BIT MORE
BUT YOU ARE GOING TO HAVE
WIGGLE ROOM.
FOLKS DISAPPOINTED ON BOTH
BUT YOU ARE GOING TO HAVE
SIDES OF THE ISSUE NO MATTER
FOLKS DISAPPOINTED ON BOTH
WHERE YOU LAND.
SIDES OF THE ISSUE NO MATTER
>> Brown: IN THE MEANTIME,
WHERE YOU LAND.
WHAT IS KNOWN AT THIS POINT
>> Brown: IN THE MEANTIME,
ABOUT HOW WIDELY THE PILL IS
WHAT IS KNOWN AT THIS POINT
BEING USED, HOW MUCH IT MAY
ABOUT HOW WIDELY THE PILL IS
HAVE EXPANDED, IF AT ALL, IN
BEING USED, HOW MUCH IT MAY
RECENT YEARS.
HAVE EXPANDED, IF AT ALL, IN
>> IT'S PRETTY WIDELY USED.
RECENT YEARS.
THE CDC LOOKED AT THIS A FEW
>> IT'S PRETTY WIDELY USED.
YEARS AGO AND FOUND BETWEEN
THE CDC LOOKED AT THIS A FEW
2006 AND 2010 THAT ABOUT ONE
YEARS AGO AND FOUND BETWEEN
IN NINE WOMEN OF CHILD
2006 AND 2010 THAT ABOUT ONE
BEARING AGE THAT WORKS OUT
IN NINE WOMEN OF CHILD
TO ABOUT 5.8 MILLION WOMEN
BEARING AGE THAT WORKS OUT
USED AN EMERGENCY
TO ABOUT 5.8 MILLION WOMEN
CONTRACEPTIVE IT IS MOST
USED AN EMERGENCY
FREQUENTLY USED BY WOMEN 20
CONTRACEPTIVE IT IS MOST
TO 24.
FREQUENTLY USED BY WOMEN 20
AND MOST OFTEN USED EITHER
TO 24.
ONCE OR TWICE.
AND MOST OFTEN USED EITHER
YOU DON'T SEE A LOT OF
ONCE OR TWICE.
REPEAT USE THAT SOME FOLK
YOU DON'T SEE A LOT OF
WAS WORRY ABOUT, RELYING ON
REPEAT USE THAT SOME FOLK
IT AS REGULAR BIRTH CONTROL.
WAS WORRY ABOUT, RELYING ON
BUT IT'S DEFINITELY PRETTY
IT AS REGULAR BIRTH CONTROL.
WIDELY USED AND THERE IS
BUT IT'S DEFINITELY PRETTY
SOME FEELING THAT THE
WIDELY USED AND THERE IS
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT BY
SOME FEELING THAT THE
ELIMINATING COPAY FORCE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT BY
CONTRACEPTIVES MAY INCREASE
ELIMINATING COPAY FORCE
USE GOING FORWARD.
CONTRACEPTIVES MAY INCREASE
>> Brown: IS THERE THE
USE GOING FORWARD.
EXPECTATION THAT THIS RULING,
>> Brown: IS THERE THE
IF IT STANDS AND ISN'T
EXPECTATION THAT THIS RULING,
APPEALED, THAT MIGHT AFFECT
IF IT STANDS AND ISN'T
THE NUMBERS PRESUMABLY?
APPEALED, THAT MIGHT AFFECT
>> RIGHT F IT MAKES ACCESS
THE NUMBERS PRESUMABLY?
EASIER.
>> RIGHT F IT MAKES ACCESS
ONE OF THE ISSUES THAT HAS
EASIER.
BEEN RAISED HERE, WHILE THIS
ONE OF THE ISSUES THAT HAS
AFFECTS MINORS A LOT IN THAT
BEEN RAISED HERE, WHILE THIS
THEY WOULD NO LONGER NEED A
AFFECTS MINORS A LOT IN THAT
PRESCRIPTION S THAT FOR
THEY WOULD NO LONGER NEED A
WOMEN OVER 17, THEY'RE NOT
PRESCRIPTION S THAT FOR
GOING TO HAVE TO GO TO THE
WOMEN OVER 17, THEY'RE NOT
PHARMACIST OR DRUGSTORE WHEN
GOING TO HAVE TO GO TO THE
THE PHARMACY IS OPEN.
PHARMACIST OR DRUGSTORE WHEN
SO THAT COULD REALLY EXPAND
THE PHARMACY IS OPEN.
ACCESS TO OLDER WOMEN AS
SO THAT COULD REALLY EXPAND
WELL.
ACCESS TO OLDER WOMEN AS
>> Brown: SARAH CLIFF FROM
WELL.
"THE WASHINGTON POST,"
>> Brown: SARAH CLIFF FROM
THANKS SO MUCH.
"THE WASHINGTON POST,"
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE ANALYSIS
OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS.
SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND "NEW YORK TIMES"
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
WELCOME BACK TO THE PROGRAM,
GENTLEMEN.
SO LET'S START OUT TALKING
ABOUT THE JOBS NUMBERS,
DAVID.
WE HEARD THE ANALYSIS
EARLIER IN THE SHOW.
FEWER JOBS CREATED THAN WHAT
THE ECONOMISTS WERE
PREDICTING.
THE RATE WENT DOWN WHICH
EVERYBODY IS HAPPY ABOUT.
BUT OVERALL THE PICTURE IS
WHAT?
>> BAD.
WE SHOULDN'T EVEN BE HAPPY
ABOUT THE RATE GOING DOWN,
YOU KNOW, AUSTIN GOOLSBEE
CALLED IT A PUNCH IN THE GUT
AND I THINK THAT'S ACT RAT
THERE WAS A SENSE AND I HAVE
BEEN HEARING FROM ECONOMISTS
AND BUSINESSPEOPLE THAT WE
ARE FINALLY REACHING
TAKEOFF.
BECAUSE THE HOUSING MARKET
IS LOOKING A LOT BETTER.
THE PRIVATE DEBT HAS BEEN
LOOKING BETTER.
SO THE FUNDAMENTALS SEEM TO
BE FINE, THAT WE'RE TAKING
OFF.
AND THAT CLEARLY IS NOT THE
CASE OR PROBABLY NOT THE
CASE.
AND SO NOW WE'RE STUCK IN
THIS FRUSTRATING ECONOMY.
AND POLITICALLY YOU BEGAN TO
SEE EVERYBODY RALLYING
AROUND THEIR FAVORITE CAUSES.
WHY DOES THIS HAPPEN.
SOME PEOPLE PICK ON
SEQUESTRATION BUT THE TIMING
ISN'T QUITE RIGHT.
THE SEQUESTRATION IS
PROBABLY GOING TO HIT TO THE
EXTENT IT DOES LATER.
MAYBE BECAUSE THE PAYROLL
TAX WAS RAISED OR RESTORED
TO EARLIER LEVELS.
BUT AGAIN, RETAIL, JOBS WERE
DOWN.
RETAIL SALES NOT SO MUCH
MAYBE HEALTH CARE.
DOWN.
WELL, IT'S HARD TO SEE.
MAYBE HEALTH CARE.
I WOULD ONLY SAY WE SHOLDU
WELL, IT'S HARD TO SEE.
BE HESITANT ABOUT TRYING TO
I WOULD ONLY SAY WE SHOLDU
DRAW A NARRATIVE ABOUT A
BE HESITANT ABOUT TRYING TO
SHORT-TERM COST VERSUS A
DRAW A NARRATIVE ABOUT A
LONG TERM, AND FOCUS ON WHAT
SHORT-TERM COST VERSUS A
WE HEARD IN THE DISCUSSION,
LONG TERM, AND FOCUS ON WHAT
SOME OF THE MORE FUNDAMENTAL
WE HEARD IN THE DISCUSSION,
ISSUES ABOUT TECHNOLOGY,
SOME OF THE MORE FUNDAMENTAL
ABOUT GLOBALIZATION, ABOUT
ISSUES ABOUT TECHNOLOGY,
MEN IN PARTICULAR DROPPING
ABOUT GLOBALIZATION, ABOUT
OUT OF THE WAGE, THE LABOR
MEN IN PARTICULAR DROPPING
FORCE.
OUT OF THE WAGE, THE LABOR
THOSE BIG LONG-TERM
FORCE.
STRUCTURAL PROBLEMS, SEEM TO
THOSE BIG LONG-TERM
ME, THE CORE THING TO WORRY.
STRUCTURAL PROBLEMS, SEEM TO
>> Woodruff: MARK, WHAT DID
ME, THE CORE THING TO WORRY.
YOU THINK ABOUT THIS JOBS
>> Woodruff: MARK, WHAT DID
REPORT?
YOU THINK ABOUT THIS JOBS
>> I THINK IT IS-- I THINK
REPORT?
THAT AUSTIN GOOLSBEE
>> I THINK IT IS-- I THINK
DESERVES THE ANTI-SPIN AWARD
THAT AUSTIN GOOLSBEE
FOR 2013.
DESERVES THE ANTI-SPIN AWARD
USUALLY YOU GET STRAIGHT
FOR 2013.
PARTISAN EXPLANATIONS.
USUALLY YOU GET STRAIGHT
AND HE SAID IT WAS A PUNCH
PARTISAN EXPLANATIONS.
IN THE GUT.
AND HE SAID IT WAS A PUNCH
IT'S MORE THAN THAT.
IN THE GUT.
IT'S MORE THAN A POLITICAL
IT'S MORE THAN THAT.
SETBACK.
IT'S MORE THAN A POLITICAL
I MEAN IT RAISES THE
SETBACK.
QUESTION, 11.7 MILLION
I MEAN IT RAISES THE
AMERICANS WERE LOOKING FOR
QUESTION, 11.7 MILLION
JOBS TO GO TO LAST MONTH.
AMERICANS WERE LOOKING FOR
AND THEY DIDN'T FIND ONE.
JOBS TO GO TO LAST MONTH.
AND WE HAVE PEOPLE, SMALLEST
AND THEY DIDN'T FIND ONE.
PERCENTAGE IN THE WORKFORCE
AND WE HAVE PEOPLE, SMALLEST
NOW IN 34 YEARS, 1979, WHICH
PERCENTAGE IN THE WORKFORCE
SOME OF US MAY RECALL WAS
NOW IN 34 YEARS, 1979, WHICH
NOT A GREAT TIME
SOME OF US MAY RECALL WAS
ECONOMICALLY IN THIS
NOT A GREAT TIME
COUNTRY.
ECONOMICALLY IN THIS
AND I THINK THE EARLIER
COUNTRY.
DISCUSSION REALLY RAISED,
AND I THINK THE EARLIER
WHAT I THINK, IS THE
DISCUSSION REALLY RAISED,
FUNDAMENTAL QUESTION.
WHAT I THINK, IS THE
I MEAN THE MORAL TEST OF ANY
FUNDAMENTAL QUESTION.
SOCIETY IS WHETHER THAT
I MEAN THE MORAL TEST OF ANY
ECONOMY SERVES THE HUMAN
SOCIETY IS WHETHER THAT
BEINGS IN IT, OR THE HUMAN
ECONOMY SERVES THE HUMAN
BEINGS THERE TO SERVE THE
BEINGS IN IT, OR THE HUMAN
ECONOMY.
BEINGS THERE TO SERVE THE
WE'VE GOT CORPORATE PROFITS
ECONOMY.
AT AN ALL-TIME HIGH, THE
WE'VE GOT CORPORATE PROFITS
STOCK MARKET GOING THROUGH
AT AN ALL-TIME HIGH, THE
THE ROOF.
STOCK MARKET GOING THROUGH
AND YET WE HAVE THIS HUMAN
THE ROOF.
WASTE OF CAPITAL AND BROKEN
AND YET WE HAVE THIS HUMAN
HUMAN DREAMS.
WASTE OF CAPITAL AND BROKEN
AND I JUST THINK IT'S TIME
HUMAN DREAMS.
BEYOND JUST A QUICK BAND-AID
AND I JUST THINK IT'S TIME
FIX OR WHATEVER.
BEYOND JUST A QUICK BAND-AID
WE'VE GOT TO EXAMINE THAT.
FIX OR WHATEVER.
IF WE'RE NOT GOING TO
WE'VE GOT TO EXAMINE THAT.
PRODUCE JOBS, I MEAN, WHAT
IF WE'RE NOT GOING TO
ARE WE GOING TO DO WITH
PRODUCE JOBS, I MEAN, WHAT
THESE PEOPLE WITH THEIR
ARE WE GOING TO DO WITH
ABILITIES, WITH THEIR
THESE PEOPLE WITH THEIR
AMBITION W THEIR TIME.
ABILITIES, WITH THEIR
I JUST THINK IT'S A SERIOUS,
AMBITION W THEIR TIME.
SERIOUS QUESTION.
I JUST THINK IT'S A SERIOUS,
>> Woodruff: SHOULD PEOPLE
SERIOUS QUESTION.
BE LOOKING TO WASHINGTON
>> Woodruff: SHOULD PEOPLE
RIGHT NOW FOR SOLUTION, FOR
BE LOOKING TO WASHINGTON
ANSWERS?
RIGHT NOW FOR SOLUTION, FOR
>> I THINK SOME OF THESE
ANSWERS?
STRUCTURAL THINGS.
>> I THINK SOME OF THESE
IT'S HARD, YOU GO IN A
STRUCTURAL THINGS.
DRUGSTORE NOW, YOU STOOD
IT'S HARD, YOU GO IN A
THERE BEFORE CASHIERS
DRUGSTORE NOW, YOU STOOD
CHECKING YOU OUT.
THERE BEFORE CASHIERS
NOW THERE IS FOUR AUTOMATIC
CHECKING YOU OUT.
MACHINES AND ONE PERSON
NOW THERE IS FOUR AUTOMATIC
HELPING OUT THE FOUR
MACHINES AND ONE PERSON
MACHINES.
HELPING OUT THE FOUR
SO THAT IS WHAT WE ARE
MACHINES.
SEEING.
SO THAT IS WHAT WE ARE
SO WHAT CAN WE DO?
SEEING.
AND I WOULD SAY BOTH PARTIES
SO WHAT CAN WE DO?
HAVE VERY BAD GROWTH
AND I WOULD SAY BOTH PARTIES
STRATEGIES.
HAVE VERY BAD GROWTH
YOU KNOW, CUTTING TAXES ANY
STRATEGIES.
MORE, I DOUBT THAT'S GOING
YOU KNOW, CUTTING TAXES ANY
TO HELP.
MORE, I DOUBT THAT'S GOING
SPENDING, WELL WE JUST CAN'T
TO HELP.
SPEND THAT MUCH MORE.
SPENDING, WELL WE JUST CAN'T
MAYBE SOME PEOPLE-- .
SPEND THAT MUCH MORE.
>> Woodruff: EVEN THE
MAYBE SOME PEOPLE-- .
INFRASTRUCTURE.
>> Woodruff: EVEN THE
>> SO WE LOOK TO THE
INFRASTRUCTURE.
LONG-TERM STUFF.
>> SO WE LOOK TO THE
AND INFRASTRUCTURE SPENDING
LONG-TERM STUFF.
IS NOT A SHORT TERM THING.
AND INFRASTRUCTURE SPENDING
THAT IS A LONG-TERM THING
IS NOT A SHORT TERM THING.
AND I THINK MOST ECONOMISTS
THAT IS A LONG-TERM THING
WOULD SAY THAT WOULD HELP,
AND I THINK MOST ECONOMISTS
AS WE SAID EARLIER,
WOULD SAY THAT WOULD HELP,
IMPROVING THE EDUCATION
AS WE SAID EARLIER,
WOULD HELP BUT THAT IS
IMPROVING THE EDUCATION
EASIER SAID THAN DONE.
WOULD HELP BUT THAT IS
SO WE HAVE A LOT OF BIG
EASIER SAID THAN DONE.
STRUCTURAL PROBLEMS WE COULD
SO WE HAVE A LOT OF BIG
IMPROVE.
STRUCTURAL PROBLEMS WE COULD
BUT AS A SHORT-TERM FIX, YOU
IMPROVE.
KNOW, WE'VE SPENT, I DON'T
BUT AS A SHORT-TERM FIX, YOU
KNOW, WE'VE SPENT ANOTHER 5,
KNOW, WE'VE SPENT, I DON'T
6 TRILLION DOLLARS IN DEBT
KNOW, WE'VE SPENT ANOTHER 5,
OVER THE LAST, SINCE THE
6 TRILLION DOLLARS IN DEBT
FINANCIAL CRISIS.
OVER THE LAST, SINCE THE
WE HAVEN'T SOLVE-- FELT A
FINANCIAL CRISIS.
THING SHORT TERM YET.
WE HAVEN'T SOLVE-- FELT A
>> Woodruff: YOU ARE SAYING
THING SHORT TERM YET.
NEITHER PARTY IS OFFERING.
>> Woodruff: YOU ARE SAYING
>> I'M REALLY STRUCK BY THE
NEITHER PARTY IS OFFERING.
LACK OF A PERSUASIVE GROWTH
>> I'M REALLY STRUCK BY THE
AGENDA.
LACK OF A PERSUASIVE GROWTH
>> I OBVIOUSLY TILT MORE
AGENDA.
TOWARDS THE DEMOCRAT'S
>> I OBVIOUSLY TILT MORE
ANSWER.
TOWARDS THE DEMOCRAT'S
BUT THE ONLY POINT I COULD
ANSWER.
COME TO IS THAT WHETHER WE
BUT THE ONLY POINT I COULD
ASSERT AND ESTABLISH THAT
COME TO IS THAT WHETHER WE
PEOPLE HAVE A RIGHT TO
ASSERT AND ESTABLISH THAT
DECENT AND PRODUCTIVE WORK,
PEOPLE HAVE A RIGHT TO
AND DECENT CONDITIONS, AT
DECENT AND PRODUCTIVE WORK,
FAIR WAGES, I MEAN, IS
AND DECENT CONDITIONS, AT
THAT-- IS THAT A CORNERSTONE
FAIR WAGES, I MEAN, IS
OF THE UNITED STATES AND OUR
THAT-- IS THAT A CORNERSTONE
VALUE SYSTEM.
OF THE UNITED STATES AND OUR
AND I THINK IF YOU START
VALUE SYSTEM.
THERE, RATHER THAN, YOU KNOW
AND I THINK IF YOU START
WHAT ARE WE GOING TO DO
THERE, RATHER THAN, YOU KNOW
BETWEEN NOW AND OCTOBER, I
WHAT ARE WE GOING TO DO
MEANS THAT'S THE QUESTION.
BETWEEN NOW AND OCTOBER, I
THEN I THINK IT BECOMES A
MEANS THAT'S THE QUESTION.
DIFFERENT TEST FOR BOTH THE
THEN I THINK IT BECOMES A
PRIVATE SECTOR AND THE
DIFFERENT TEST FOR BOTH THE
PUBLIC SECTOR.
PRIVATE SECTOR AND THE
>> BOTH OF YOU MENTIONED THE
PUBLIC SECTOR.
EARLIER SEGMENT, THE ANALYST
>> BOTH OF YOU MENTIONED THE
SAID OTHER COUNTRIES HAVE
EARLIER SEGMENT, THE ANALYST
DONE A BETTER JOB.
SAID OTHER COUNTRIES HAVE
>> SHE MENTIONED GERMANY,
DONE A BETTER JOB.
DENMARK.
>> SHE MENTIONED GERMANY,
>> Woodruff: SUPPORTING THE
DENMARK.
ECONOMY WHEN IT HITS THIS
>> Woodruff: SUPPORTING THE
KIND OF A PASS.
ECONOMY WHEN IT HITS THIS
>> EXACTLY RIGHT.
KIND OF A PASS.
I REALLY DO THINK IT IS A
>> EXACTLY RIGHT.
MORE HUMANITARIAN INSTEAD
I REALLY DO THINK IT IS A
OF-- THE GERMAN EXAMPLE
MORE HUMANITARIAN INSTEAD
INSTEAD OF LAYING SOMEBODY
OF-- THE GERMAN EXAMPLE
OFF, THEY CUT BACK THE HOURS
INSTEAD OF LAYING SOMEBODY
SO THAT FIVE PEOPLE ARE
OFF, THEY CUT BACK THE HOURS
WORKING 35 HOURS A WEEK
SO THAT FIVE PEOPLE ARE
INSTEAD OF, YOU KNOW
WORKING 35 HOURS A WEEK
PEOPLE WORKING --
INSTEAD OF, YOU KNOW
>> THERE ARE TRADE-OFFS.
PEOPLE WORKING --
LOOK AT THE EUROPEAN
>> THERE ARE TRADE-OFFS.
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE WHAT IS IT
LOOK AT THE EUROPEAN
4 OR 5 POINTS HIGHER THAN
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE WHAT IS IT
OURS.
4 OR 5 POINTS HIGHER THAN
THE EUROPEAN ECONOMY IS NOT
OURS.
EXACTLY SOMETHING TO
THE EUROPEAN ECONOMY IS NOT
SELF-RECOMMEND ITSELF RIGHT
EXACTLY SOMETHING TO
NOW.
SELF-RECOMMEND ITSELF RIGHT
I DO THINK SOME
NOW.
GERMAN-- GERMAN RETRAINING
I DO THINK SOME
MAY BE BETTER BUT THEY HAVE
GERMAN-- GERMAN RETRAINING
A DIFFERENT SORT OF ECONOMY
MAY BE BETTER BUT THEY HAVE
THAN WE DO.
A DIFFERENT SORT OF ECONOMY
MUCH WE HAVE A MUCH MORE
THAN WE DO.
DISRUPTIVE ECONOMY.
MUCH WE HAVE A MUCH MORE
THE THING THAT WORRIES ME IS
DISRUPTIVE ECONOMY.
LONG-TERM MEN IN PARTICULAR
THE THING THAT WORRIES ME IS
DROPPING OUT OF THE LABOR
LONG-TERM MEN IN PARTICULAR
FORCE.
DROPPING OUT OF THE LABOR
A NUMBER OF ECONOMISTS HAVE
FORCE.
SAID THIS ECONOMY STILL
A NUMBER OF ECONOMISTS HAVE
REWARDS EDUCATION.
SAID THIS ECONOMY STILL
EVEN IF THIS ECONOMY.
REWARDS EDUCATION.
IF YOU HAVE A COLLEGE DEGREE
EVEN IF THIS ECONOMY.
YOUR UNEMPLOYMENT RATE IS
IF YOU HAVE A COLLEGE DEGREE
VERY LOW.
YOUR UNEMPLOYMENT RATE IS
WOMEN HAVE GOTTEN THAT
VERY LOW.
MESSAGE.
WOMEN HAVE GOTTEN THAT
MEN HAVE TO THE GOTTEN THAT
MESSAGE.
MEN HAVE NOT UPPED THEIR
SKILL LEVEL.
AND SO WHY IS THAT?
IT COULD HAVE TO DO WITH
FAMILY STRUCTURE T COULD
HAVE TO DO WITH A THOUSAND
OTHER THINGS BUT THOSE ARE
THE SORT OF FUNDAMENTAL
THINGS REALLY HURTING THE
LABOR MARKET.
>> Woodruff: SO CAN ANYTHING
BE DONE?
I MEAN DO I HEAR BOTH OF YOU
SAYING --
>> WELL, I THINK THERE IS AN
AWFUL LOT OF WORK THAT NEEDS
TO BE DONE IN OUR SOCIETY.
THERE'S ALL KINDS OF TASKS
THAT NEED TO BE PERFORMED.
THE QUESTION IS ARE WE GOING
TO BE STUCK IN THIS
CORPORATE MOOD EL THAT SAYS
THAT, I MEAN, WAL-MART,
LARGEST EMPLOYER IN THE
COUNTRY, ITS PROFITS ARE UP,
IT'S OPENED NEW STORES WITH
FEWER EMPLOYEES.
I MEAN IF THAT'S THE MODEL
WE'VE GOING TO FIND, AND
TURN IT OVER AND SAY THAT IS
FINE, THEN WE'RE GOING TO
END UP WITH DOUBLE-DIGIT
UNEMPLOYMENT AND WASTED
LIVES.
I MEAN I JUST THINK THERE
ARE ALL KINDS OF THINGS THAT
CAN BE DONE AND OUGHT TO BE
ONEMDENT BUT IT DOES REQUIRE
THE PUBLIC SECRETARY TORE DO
THEM.
>> HERE WE GET INTO MORE OF
A LEFT RIGHT THING.
WOOLWORTH TOOK JOBS AWAY
FROM MOM AND POP 70, 80
YEARS AGO, WAL-MART, IT IS
JUST A MORE EFFICIENT
SYSTEM.
I THINK WE NEED TO USE HUMAN
CAPITAL MORE PRODUCTIVELY.
SO WAL-MART IS ON NET IN
ENHANCEMENT OF PRODUCTIVITY
LEVELS.
THAT DOESN'T MEAN YOU DO
NOTHING.
YOU INCREASE TRAINING.
YOU INCREASE INFRASTRUCTURE
SPENDING.
YOU GET THE EDUCATION SYSTEM,
AND MOSTLY YOU DEVOTE LESS
RESOURCES, FEWER RESOURCES
TO THE ELDERLY AND
CONSUMPTION ON HEALTH CARE
FOR AT FLUENT, AND MUCH MORE
TO YOUNG FAMILIES AND YOUNG
WORKERS.
AND SHIFT WHAT'S TURNED INTO
REALLY A REDISTRIBUTION
MACHINE.
>> Woodruff: WELL, SPEAKING
OF LESS MONEY FOR THE
ELDERLY, PRESIDENT OBAMA, IT
WAS JUST REPORTED OVERNIGHT
THAT IN THIS BUDGET THAT
COMES OUT NEXT WEEK, HE IS
GOING TO PROPOSE SOMETHING
THE REPUBLICANS HAVE BEEN
ASKING HIM TO PUT OUT THERE,
AND THAT CUTS ENTITLEMENTS,
SOCIAL SECURITY, MEDICARE W
SOME CARVEOUTS FOR THOSE AT
THE LOWER END OF THE INCOME
SCALE AND FOR, THEY CALL
EXTREME ELDERLY, THEY'RE
STILL TALKING ABOUT CUTBACKS
IN BENEFITS FOR PEOPLE WHO
LOOK TO GOVERNMENT FOR
SUPPORT.
>> I AGREE.
THIS IS A REAL BODY BLOW TO
THOSE WHO ACCUSE PRESIDENT
OBAMA OF BEING A SOCIALIST.
THIS IS LARDLY A SOCIALISTIC
APPROACH.
IN ADDITION, I MEAN FOR NOT
TAKING DIFFICULT POLITICAL
STANDS, HE'S BEEN BOMBARDED
BY THE LIBRAL PART OF HIS
OWN PARTY AND MANY LIBERAL
GROUPS.
YOU KNOW, I THINK, JUDY,
THAT HE'S PROBABLY THE LAST
BEST CHANCE WE'RE GOING HAVE
TO REACH ANY KIND OF A BIG,
SEMI BIG AGREEMENT IS WHAT
THE PRESIDENT IS GOING TO
UNVEIL IN HIS BUDGET NEXT
WEDNESDAY.
AND I THINK IT'S ABSOLUTELY
LEGITIMATE POINT ON HIS SIDE
TO SAY THAT THE REPUBLICANS
HAVE COME UP WITH REVENUE IF
WE ARE GOING TO DO THIS,
BECAUSE THIS IS A BLOW TO
THE DEMOCRATS.
IT'S BEEN THE HOLY GRAIL OF
THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY
PLATFORM FOR THE PAST 70
YEARS, SOCIAL SECURITY.
AND YOU KNOW, I THINK IN
THAT SENSE WE'LL FIND OUT
WHETHER THE COMMON SENSE
CAUCUS THAT EDITORIAL
WRITERS AND SOME OF THE
LEADING PUNDITS, WHETHER
IT'S THE LOCK NECESSARY
MONSTER OF AMERICAN POLITICS
OR WHETHER IT'S A REALITY.
>> I THINK HE'S TAKING THE
RIGHT APPROACH.
WE HAVE THE PATTY MURRAY,
THE SENATE DEMOCRATIC BUDGET
OVER HERE.
THE RYAN BUDGET OVER THERE.
HE'S SORT OF A LITTLE CLOSER
TO MURRAY, OBVIOUSLY, BUT
HE'S SORT OF IN THE BALLPARK
OF WHERE A DEAL WILL BE CUT.
AND SO SOME OF THE THINGS I
THINK ARE RIGHT AND GOOD
POLICIES, THIS CHAINED CPI
WHICH WILL BE ADJUSTING
SOCIAL SECURITY REVENUES OR
BENEFITS.
SOME OF THE THINGS I THINK
ARE LESS PERSUASIVE.
HE'S GOT MEDICARE THINGS
WHICH ARE NOT STRUCTURAL
REFORM BUT JUST TRYING TO
TAMP DOWN REINFORCEMENTS AS
THE SAME TIME WE ARE JUST
RUNNING AWAY FROM ANY EFFORT
TO CONTROL MEDICARE COSTS.
BUT IF HE CAN TAKE THIS
CHAINED CPI, THIS SOCIAL
SECURITY THING, AND HE CAN
PUT IN A FEW LITTLE MORE
MODERATE MEDICARE REFORMS,
STRUCTURAL REFORMS LIKE
COMBINING MEDICARE A AND B
AND OTHER THINGS, I THINK
THAT HAS SOME BIPARTISAN
AGREEMENT.
I DO BELIEVE THERE ARE A
NUMBER OF REPUBLICANS WHO
WOULD BE WILLING TO GIVE ON
REVENUES.
AND THEN WE'RE NOT GOING TO
HAVE A GRAND BARGAIN BUT
THEN DO YOU SEE A BARGAIN.
YOU SEE A FUNCTIONING
GOVERNMENT MAKING PROGRESS.
>> Woodruff: SO DO YOU THINK,
MARK THIS COULD LEAD TO SOME
KIND OF-- BECAUSE RIGHT NOW
THE REPUBLICAN LEADERSHIP IN
THE CONGRESS IS SAYING NO,
THIS ISN'T ENOUGH.
AND WE'RE NOT GIVING ON
REVENUE.
>> YES, SPEAKER BOEHNER
TODAY REJECTED IT AND SO DID
MAJORITY LITRE CANTOR.
I THINK ONE OF THE-- LEADER
CANTOR.
I THINK ONE OF THETHI NGS
HEAD OF THE WAYS AND MEANS
COMMITTEE, ALL OF THE
REPUBLICANS SAY SEND IT TO
THE WAYS AND MEANS
COMMITTEE.
DEMOCRATIC BUDGET DOESN'T
SAY SEND IT TO-- THEY HAVE
ENORMOUS RESPONSIBILITY.
THIS IS HIS LAST BIG CHANCE,
AS CHAIRMAN.
I MEAN IF HE WANTS TO MAKE
HISTORY, AND BARACK OBAMA,
THIS IS 1986 REVISITED.
AND BARACK OBAMA, IS RONALD
REAGAN AND HE IS ROSS TEN
COWSKI, THEN IT DOES TAKE ON
A CHANCE.
BUT I STILL LOOKING FOR
THOSE COMMON SENSE
REPUBLICANS TO STEP UP AND
SAY YES, MR. PRESIDENT, YOU
JUST DID BITE THE BULLET.
YOU DID, IN FACT, STEP ON
THE THIRD RAIL OF THE
AMERICAN POLITICS, SOCIAL
SECURITY.
>> THE PRESIDENT IS GOING
OVER TO HAVE DINNER WITH
WHAT, A DOZEN OR SO
REPUBLICAN SENATORS.
>> IT WON'T HAPPEN TO THE
WHITE HOUSE.
-- GO TO THE WHITE HOUSE, I
MEAN HE ALWAYS WANTS TO MEET
HIM.
IT'S LIKE A STRANGE DATE.
>> THEY STEAL THE SILVER
WARE.
THEY CAN'T BE TRUSTEDZ ALL
RIGHT-- .
>> Woodruff: ONLY A COUPLE
OF MINUTES.
NORTH KOREA, IT'S BEEN, IT
WAS SCARY, DAVID.
IT SOUNDS SCARIER TODAY THAN
IT DID.
THEY ARE MOVING MISSILES
INTO POSITION.
EY THSAID JUST ABOUT
EVERYTHING YOU CAN SAY.
WHAT ARE PEOPLE SAYING YOU
ARE TALKING TO, HOW WORRIED
SHOULD THEY BE.
>> THERE ARE TWO SCHOOLS OF
THOUGHT.
ONE IS THEY'RE BLUSTERING
THROUGH DOMESTIC USE, THAT
SORT OF THING.
WE HAVE A NEW LEADER.
THE SECOND IS NO, THIS IS
DIFFERENT.
THEY'RE ACTUALLY DOING AS
YOU SAY SOME SUBSTANTIVE
THINGS IN ADDITION, THIS NEW
LEADER MAYBE HE IS
UNPREDICTABLE.
AND SO THE ONE THING THEY
SEE PEOPLE, I HEAR FROM,
SEEM TO BE UNITED ABOUT IS
WHAT DO WE DO ABOUT IT?
AND SO THERE ARE SOME THINGS
WE CAN DO.
WE'RE TRYING TO PRESSURE
CHINA BUT I DON'T HEAR TOO
MUCH HOPE ABOUT THAT.
AND SO SO FAR THERE SEEMS IT
TO BE RELATIVELY LITTLE.
WE'VE TRIED THE TALKS AND
THAT DOESN'T SEEM TO WORK.
>> NORTH KOREA IS A
CHINESE-- STATE WORKS CHINA
THERE IS NO NORTH KOREA.
BUT UNLIKE IRAN WHERE
EVERYBODY IS EXERCISED ABOUT
THE FACT THAT THEY MAY GET A
NUCLEAR WEAPON, THIS FELLOW
HAS NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
HE SUN TESTEDNESS.
HE'S NEW.
HE'S ABSOLUTELY
UNPREDICTABLE.
AND CHUCK HAGEL'S FIRST TEST
AS SECRETARY OF DEFENSE, I
MEAN I THINK IT MORE THAN
BEARS WATCHING.
I THINK IT'S SERIOUS STUFF.
>> Woodruff: ON THAT
SOBERING NOTE, WE THANK YOU
BOTH, MARK SHIELDS, DAVID
BROOKS.
AND MARK AND DAVID KEEP UP
THE TALK ON THE DOUBLEHEADER
RECORDED IN OUR NEWSROOM,
THAT WILL BE POSTED AT THE
TOP OF THE RUNDOWN LATER
TONIGHT.
>> Brown: NEXT, WITH TAX DAY
LOOMING FOR MILLIONS OF
AMERICANS, A NEW INVESTIGATION
EXPOSES THE GLOBAL USE OF
OFF-SHORE BANK ACCOUNTS TO HIDE
TRILLIONS OF DOLLARS AND EVADE
LAWS.
AND AGAIN TO HARI, WHO HAS THE
STORY.
>> Reporter: UNCOVERING THE
COMPLEX WORKINGS OF OFFSHORE
TAX HAVENS HAS LEAD TO ONE
OF THE LARGEST CROSSBORDER
COLLABORATIONS EVER BETWEEN
JOURNALISTS.
THE INTERNATIONAL CONSORTIUM
OF INVESTIGATIVE JOURNALISTS
HAS BEEN COMBING THROUGH
MORE THAN 2 MILLION FILES OF
FINANCIAL TRANSACTION DATA
FOR MORE THAN A YEAR.
IT'S TAKEN THIS LONG BECAUSE
THE DIGITAL FILE SIZE IS 160
TIMES LARGER THAN THE STATE
DEPARTMENT CABLES PUBLICKED
BY WIKILEAKS IN 2010.
A TEAM OF 8 OF INVESTIGATIVE
JOURNALISTS FROM 46
COUNTRIES HAS COLLECTIVELY
EXAMINED MORE THAN 120,000
OFFSHORE ACCOUNTS BELONGING
TO INDIVIDUALS AND COMPANIES
FOR MORE THAN-- FROM MORE
THAN 170 COUNTRIES.
THE RECORDS SHOW HOW
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS AND
INDIVIDUALS IN A NUMBER OF
COUNTRIES USE COVERT
ACCOUNTS AND COMPANIES TO
SHIELD THEIR WEALTH.
AND HOW SOME OF THE TOP
GLOBAL BANKS WORK WITHIN
THESE OFFSHORE TAX HAVENS AS
WELL.
THE INVESTIGATION IS ALREADY
LEADING TO A SERIES OF
REPORTS INCLUDING ONE
SPOTLIGHTING THE
TRANSACTIONS OF A CANADIAN
SENATOR'S HUSBAND WHOSE
HIDDEN MONEY FROM THEIR
EQUIVALENT OF THE IRS.
AN AUSTRALIAN TIED TO ARMS
DEALING THROUGH SHELL
COMPANY, AND A MONGOLN LIAAW
MAKER WHO MAY RESIGN OVER
THE REVELATIONS OF HIS
FINANCES OVERSEAS.
JARED RILE DIRECTS THE
INTERNATIONAL CONSORTIUM OF
INVESTIGATIVE JOURNALISTS
AND JOINS US TO DISCUSS THE
FINDINGS.
THANKS FOR BEING WITH US.
>> GREAT TO BE HERE.
>> Reporter: HOW DID YOU GET
THIS DROVE-- TROVE OF
INFORMATION, WHAT IS THE
DATA.
>> THE DATA IS AN ENORMOUS
AMOUNT OF SORT OF VERY
UNSTRUCTURED DATA.
IT'S GOT DOCUMENTS,
SPREADSHEETS, FINANCIAL
TRANSACTIONS, E-MAILS.
AND IT CAME ABOUT BECAUSE OF
A LONG INVESTIGATION I DID
IN AUSTRALIA ABOUT A FRAUD
THAT EFFECTIVELY LEAD ME TO
THIS WORLD THIS SECRET WORLD
THAT I KNEW NOTHING ABOUT,
WHICH WAS THE WORLD OF
OFFSHORE.
>> Reporter: SO IN THIS
REPORT YOU SAY THAT IT'S NOT
JUST THE SUPERRICH AND THE
SUPERPOWERFUL, BUT IT'S MORE
PERVASIVE, EXPLAIN THAT.
>> PROBABLY THE BIGGEST
SURPRISE THAT I FOUND, I
INITIALLY THOUGHT THAT THE
PEOPLE YOU EXPECT TO USE TAX
HAVENS ARE THE SUPERWEALTHY.
BUT WHEN YOU LOOK AT THIS
WORLD YOU FIND THAT IT'S NOT
JUST THE SUPERWEALTHY USING
IT, IT IS THE SORT OF
MODERATELY WEALTHY.
AND IT PERVADES RIGHT DOWN
THROUGH SOCIETY TO DOCTORS,
DENTISTS, YOU KNOW, SMALL
TIME DEVELOPERS.
THEY'VE ALL DISCOVERED THIS
WORLD.
AND THEY'RE ALL USING IT.
>> Reporter: YOU SAID THAT
IT CONTRIBUTES TO FRAUD, TAX
DODGING AND ENABLES POLICE
CALL CORRUPTION, EXPLAIN
THAT?
>> WELL, THE VERY SECRECY OF
THIS ALLOWS YOU TO MISUSE IT
I MEAN THIS WORLD IS FOR THE
MOST PART, YOU IMAGINE, YOU
CAN'T PROVE T LEGITIMATE.
THERE'S NOTHING ILLEGAL WITH
USING, BUYING AN OFFSHORE
COMPANY, THERE IS KNOCK
ILLEGAL WITH SETTING UP A
SECRET BANK ACCOUNT.
IT'S ONLY IF YOU DON'T
REPORT THAT TO THE
AUTHORITIES IF YOU NEED TO
REPORT IT, WHERE IT BECOMES
ILLEGAL.
BUT BECAUSE IT'S SO SECRET,
I MEAN ROGUE NATIONS CAN USE
THIS WE CAME ACROSS A
COMPANY THAT WAS A FRONT FOR
THE IRANIAN SHIPPING LINE,
YOU KNOW, WHICH HAS SINCE
BEEN OUTLAWED BY THE
EUROPEAN UNION, BY THE U.S.
AUTHORITIES, YOU KNOW, SO
BASICALLY THE WAY THAT THEY
USE IT IS BECAUSE THEY CAN
GET AWAY WITH ANYTHING THEY
WANT.
>> Reporter: AND SO INCLUDED
IN THIS LIST OF NAMES THAT
YOU HAVE ACCESS TO IS 4,000
?MERICAN NAMES.
OR HOW ARE WE GOING TO FIND
OUT ABOUT THAT REPORT?
>> WELL, AGAIN, IT WAS VERY
DIFFICULT FOR US TO WORK OUT
WHETHER OR NOT ANY OF THESE
PEOPLE WERE BREAKING ANY
LAWS.
AND OUR FIRST DUTY AS
REPORTERS WAS TO, YOU KNOW,
LOOK AFTER THE PUBLIC
INTEREST.
A LOT OF THESE PEOPLE ARE
NOT PUBLIC FIGURES, SO
THEREFORE IT DIDN'T JUMP
THAT BARRIER FOR US WHICH
SOME-- THERE HAVE TO BE
PUBLIC FIGURES IN SOME WAY.
>> Reporter: AND YOU ALSO
OUTLINE THAT THE SCOPE OR
SCALE OF THIS, THE 121 TO 30
TRILLION DOLLARS-- 21 TO 30
TRILLION ARE FLOATING AROUND
IN THIS ALMOST SECOND BANK
NETWORK?
>> THE ADVOCACY GROUP HAS
THE BEST FIGURES ON WHAT
THEY THINK IS THE SIZE OF
THIS OFFSHORE WORLD AND THEY
SAY HALF OF ALL WORLD TRADE
AND A THIRD OF ALL WORLD
WEALTH NOW RESIDES IN THE
OFFSHORE WORLD.
AND THIS IS THE FIRST TIME
THAT ANYONE HAS BEEN ABLE TO
REALLY SEE INTO THAT WORLD.
AND I'M NOT SAYING THAT
WE'VE GOT IT ALL
COMPREHENSIVELY COVERED
HERE.
WE'RE ONLY LOOKING AT A VERY
SMALL SLICE OF A VERY LARGE
WORLD.
BUT IT'S A VERY DEEP SLICE
OF THAT WORLD.
>> Reporter: SO WHAT ARE
PEOPLE USING THIS FOR?
JUST TO TRY TO BUY ART
WITHOUT TELLING THE IRS
ABOUT IT?
HOW ARE THEY MOVING MONEY
AROUND?
WHAT ARE THEY DOING IT WITH
IT.
>> SOME PEOPLE ARE HIDING
MONEY FROM THEIR SPOUSES
DURING DIVORCE PRIDINGS.
YOU HAVE SOME SUPERWEALTHY
PEOPLE WHO LIKE TO OWN A
YACHT AND THEY LIKE TO HAVE
COMPANIES THAT OWN THOSE
YACHTS FOR PRIVACY REASONS,
IN SOME CASES.
YOU HAVE TO ASSUME THAT SOME
OF IT ISN'T JUST FOR PRIVACY
REASONS.
THAT IT'S TO TRY TO HIDE IT
FROM AUTHORITIES.
NOT JUST THE U.S.
AUTHORITIES.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT DATA AND
NAMES FROM 170 COUNTRIES.
>> Reporter: WHAT DO YOU
THINK SOME OF THE
CONSEQUENCES ARE GOING TO BE
FROM THE RELEASE OF THIS
INFORMATION WHEN WE SAW
WIKILEAKS INITIALLY WE
DIDN'T KNOW WHAT TO MAKE
SENSE OF IT EVENTUALLY IT
HAD HUGE POLITICAL
CONSEQUENCES AROUND THE
WORLD.
>> IT'S HARD TO KNOW WHAT IS
GOING TO HAPPEN HERE.
BUT THE FIRST, I GUESS,
CONSEQUENCE IS THAT A SECRET
WORLD IS NO LONGER SECRET.
AND IT'S GOING TO SEND
SHIVERS THROUGH THIS WORLD.
WE DISCOVERED THAT THERE IS
A WHOLE SERVICE INDUSTRY OUT
THERE ALL PROVIDERS WHO, YOU
KNOW, ARE USED BY BIG BANKS
AND OTHER, YOU KNOW, EVERY
DAY INSTITUTIONS.
AND THEY PROVIDE, YOU KNOW,
THE MEANS TO SET UP OFFSHORE
ACCOUNTS, OFFSHORE COMPANIES,
THE MEANS TO, YOU KNOW, TO
BASICALLY CONDUCT YOUR
BUSINESS THROUGH SECRECY.
>> Reporter: I GOT TO ASK A
QUESTION ON THE JOURNALISM
SIDE OF IT.
HOW DO YOU KEEP 80 DIFFERENT
NEWSPAPERS AND EVERYBODY
TOGETHER AND SORT OF KEEP A
SECRET AS THEY ARE
DEVELOPING THIS PROCESS.
THIS IDEA OF DISTRIBUTED
REPORTING IS PRETTY NOVEL.
>> WE WERE ABLE TO CONVINCE
EVERYBODY THAT IF THEY
SHARED INFORMATION AND
SHARED RESOURCES THAT WE
WOULD ALL END UP WITH A
BETTER PRODUCT.
AND BECAUSE THIS WORLD HAS
NO BORDERS AND IT DOESN'T
HAVE ANY BORDERS, THE
REPORTING TOOK PEOPLE FLEW
ONE COUNTRY AND INTO
ANOTHER.
AND THEY WERE ABLE TO-- ABLE
TO SHARE INFORMATION THAT
HELPED EACH OTHER.
AND THAT BECAME APPARENT
VERY QUICKLY.
AND OF COURSE WE GREW THE
NUMBER OF REPORTERS OVER
TIME.
SO IT WAS FOR THE TIME IT
GOT TO 86 REPORTERS, THE
REPORTERS WHO STARTED WITH
US WERE ABLE TO TELL THE
OTHERS THAT IT WAS WORTH
THEIR WHILE.
>> Reporter: SO YOU WOULD
SHOW THEM A LIST OF NAMES
AND SAY ARE THESE PEOPLE
SIGNIFICANT OR NOT IS SO HOW
ARE WE GOING TO SEE THESE
REPORTS COME OUT?
IS IT THE NEXT FEW WEEKS OR
NEXT FEW MONTHS?
>> OUR PLAN IS TO DO
PROBABLY ANOTHER TWO WEEKS
OF REPORTING ON IT.
AND THEN TO GO BACK IN.
WE THINK WE HAVE ONLY
SCHEMED ABOUT 20% OF THE
DATA, EVEN AFTER 15 MONTHS
OF LOOKING AT IT, BECAUSE
THERE IS SO MUCH IN THERE
THAT IT IS KIND OF
IMPENETRABLE.
THERE ARE EVEN FILES WE
HAVEN'T YET TO LOOK AT
BECAUSE WE COULDN'T READ
THEM.
IT TOOK A LOT OF TECHNICAL
NO-HOW TO BE ABLE TO REA
SELL TBL ALL, TO USE SPECIAL
SOFTWARE TO READ SO WE THINK
THERE ARE A LOT MORE STORIES
IN THERE.
BUT THIS IS OUR FIRST
ATTEMPT, BASICALLY, AT
BREAKING IT OPEN.
>> Reporter: THANKS SO MUCH
FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: AND YOU CAN FIND A
LINK TO THE REPORTING BY THE
GROUP OF JOURNALISTS ON OUR
>> Brown: YOU'LL FIND A LINK TO
THE REPORTING BY THE GROUP OF
JOURNALISTS ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY, TONIGHT'S
EDITION OF PBS'S "NEED TO KNOW"
EXAMINES A VERMONT PROGRAM THAT
OFFERS LOW-INCOME WORKERS WITH
MONEY PROBLEMS, SHORT-TERM LOANS
WITH NO QUESTIONS ASKED.
EMPLOYERS SAY IT'S BOOSTED
PRODUCTIVITY AND REDUCED
TURNOVER.
HERE'S AN EXCERPT.
THE CORRESPONDENT IS WILLIAM
BRANGHAM.
>> WE WERE TRYING TO
AVOID-- AVOID WORKERS HAVING
TO GO TO WHAT WE CALL
PREDATORY LENDING PLACES.
WE DIDN'T WANT THEM TO GET
IN WORSE FINANCIAL SHAPE.
>> SO THEY COME IN AND THEY
NEED TO GET THIS LOAN.
DOES THIS TAKE A WEEK FOR
THE MONEY COULD
TOMORROW-- TO COME?
HOW LONG DOES THIS TAKE?
>> IT COULD BE THAT
AFTERNOON.
IF SOMEBODY COMES IN THE
MORNING, IT CAN BE THAT
AFTERNOON.
>> THAT THEY GET THE MONEY.
>> CORRECT.
A VERY SHORT PROCESS.
>> THE EMPLOYERS MAKE
ARRANGEMENTS WITH LOCAL
CREDIT UNIONS IN VER MONTH
WHO ACTUALLY HANDLE THE
LOANS WHICH CAN RANGE
ANYWHERE FROM ABOUT 200 TO
ABOUT $1,000.
YOU ARE ARE ONLY ALLOWED TO
TAKE OUT ONE LOAN AT A TIME.
AND THE EMPLOYEE PAYS THE
LOAN BACK BY HAVING A SMALL
AMOUNT OF MONEY
AUTOMATICALLY DEDUCTED FROM
THEIR PAYCHECK.
>> THE CREDIT UNIONS CHARGE
ROUGHLY 17% INTEREST ON THE
LOAN.
THAT'S HIGHER THAN LOANS
GIVEN TO PEOPLE WITH BETTER
CREDIT BUT CONSIDERABLY LESS
THAN THE SKY-HIGH RATES
OFFERED BY MANY OTHER SHORT
TERM LENDERS.
WITHIN RHINO FOODS THESE
LOANS HAVE PROVEN TO BE
INCREDIBLY POPULAR.
WHILE WORKERS EARN FROM 123
TO 16 DOLLARS AN HOUR WITH
FULL BENEFITS NEARLY HALF
THE EMPLOYEES HAVE TAKEN OUT
LOANS SINCE THE PROGRAM
BEGAN IN 2007.
>> I THOUGHT ABOUT THE FACT
THAT WE'RE NOW JUST
FACILITATING HELPING PEOPLE
BORROW MONEY, AND BE IN
DEBT.
AND THAT'S A HARD THING TO
RATIONALIZE, IS THAT OKAY.
BUT I HAVE SEEN ALL THE
BENEFITS FROM IT.
>> ERIC TOOK OUT A LOAN TO
HELP PAY HIS BILLS UNTIL HIS
GIRLFRIEND GOT A NEW JOB.
>> WHEN THEY BROUGHT THIS TO
MY ATTENTION, I WAS JUST
ECSTATIC, YOU KNOW.
I THINK IT IS A BEAUTIFUL
THING.
FOR PEOPLE IN THE MIDDLE
CLASS THAT ARE STRUGGLING,
YOU KNOW, TO HAVES THAT, YOU
KNOW, SECURITY, THAT
SECURITY BLANKET IS A GOOD
THING.
>> NEED TO KNOW'S REPORT IS
CALLED SAVINGS & LOANS.
TAND AIRS TONIGHT ON MOST
PBS STATIONS.
>> Brown: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
UNEMPLOYMENT DROPPED TO 7.6% IN
MARCH, BUT EMPLOYERS ADDED ONLY
88,000 JOBS, THE SMALLEST IN
NINE MONTHS.
AND TENSIONS CONTINUED TO MOUNT
ON THE KOREAN PENINSULA WITH
REPORTS THE NORTH HAS LOADED TWO
MEDIUM-RANGE MISSILES ONTO
MOBILE LAUNCHERS.
>> Woodruff: WHAT'S THE BIG DEAL
ABOUT IMAGES OF A PARACHUTE
FLAPPING IN THE WIND ON MARS?
THE ANSWER IS ONLINE, AS
KWAME HOLMAN EXPLAINS.
>> Holman: THAT'S THE TOPIC
TODAY FOR OUR "LUNCH IN THE LAB"
STORY.
AND JUDY EXPLORES THE MYTHS
SURROUNDING THE EPIDEMIC OF DRUG
ADDICTION WITH DAVID SHEFF,
AUTHOR OF A NEW BOOK TITLED
"CLEAN".
THAT'S ON THE RUNDOWN.
PLUS, APRIL IS THE COOLEST
MONTH, ACCORDING TO POETRY
LOVERS.
JEFF ASKS THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
OF THE ACADEMY OF AMERICAN POETS
HOW YOU CAN HELP CELEBRATE
NATIONAL POETRY MONTH.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
JUDY?
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON MONDAY, WE'LL HAVE A STATE BY
STATE LOOK AT GUN LAWS IN THE
U.S.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
"WASHINGTON WEEK" CAN BE SEEN
LATER THIS EVENING ON MOST
PBS STATIONS.
AND A BRAND NEW ONLINE FEATURE
FOLLOWS THAT: GWEN IFILL'S
"WEBCAST EXTRA" WILL BE STREAMED
LIVE AT 8:30P M EASTERN TIME.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE MONDAY EVENING.
HAVE A NICE WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.